This is the script of the Ksetra Ksetrajna Vibhaaga Yoga. It is the chapter number 13. It has 35 shlokas. The name means Yoga through Distinguishing the Field and the Knower of the Field.

The thirteenth chapter of the Bhagavad Gita is "Ksetra Ksetrajna Vibhaaga Yoga". The word "kshetra" means "the field", and the "kshetrajna" means "the knower of the field". We can think of our material body as the field and our immortal soul as the knower of the field. In this chapter, Krishna discriminates between the physical body and the immortal soul. He explains that the physical body is temporary and perishable whereas the soul is permanent and eternal. The physical body can be destroyed but the soul can never be destroyed. The chapter then describes God, who is the Supreme Soul. All the individual souls have originated from the Supreme Soul. One who clearly understands the difference between the body, the Soul and the Supreme Soul attains the realization of Brahman.

This is Chapter 13 Shloka 1 script:
arjuna uvācha
prakṛitiṁ puruṣhaṁ chaiva kṣhetraṁ kṣhetra-jñam eva cha
etad veditum ichchhāmi jñānaṁ jñeyaṁ cha keśhava

This is the meaning of the above verse: This is not a sentence, so there is nothing to fix.

This is Chapter 13 Shloka 2 script:
śhrī-bhagavān uvācha
idaṁ śharīraṁ kaunteya kṣhetram ity abhidhīyate
etad yo vetti taṁ prāhuḥ kṣhetra-jña iti tad-vidaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: The Lord said, "O Arjuna, this body is called the Field, Ksetra. Those who know the self call the one who knows it the Field-knower, Ksetrajna."

This is Chapter 13 Shloka 3 script:
kṣhetra-jñaṁ chāpi māṁ viddhi sarva-kṣhetreṣhu bhārata
kṣhetra-kṣhetrajñayor jñānaṁ yat taj jñānaṁ mataṁ mama

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।13.3।। हे भारत ! तुम समस्त क्षेत्रों में क्षेत्रज्ञ मुझे ही जानो। क्षेत्र और क्षेत्रज्ञ का जो ज्ञान है, वही (वास्तव में) ज्ञान है , ऐसा मेरा मत है।।
 

This is Chapter 13 Shloka 4 script:
tat kṣhetraṁ yach cha yādṛik cha yad-vikāri yataśh cha yat
sa cha yo yat-prabhāvaśh cha tat samāsena me śhṛiṇu

This is the meaning of the above verse: Hear from Me in brief what the field is, of what nature it is, what its modifications are, whence it is, who He is, and what His powers are.

This is Chapter 13 Shloka 5 script:
ṛiṣhibhir bahudhā gītaṁ chhandobhir vividhaiḥ pṛithak
brahma-sūtra-padaiśh chaiva hetumadbhir viniśhchitaiḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: It has been sung by seers in various ways, in various distinctive hymns, and also in the well-reasoned and conclusive words of the Brahma-sutras.

This is Chapter 13 Shloka 6 script:
mahā-bhūtāny ahankāro buddhir avyaktam eva cha
indriyāṇi daśhaikaṁ cha pañcha chendriya-gocharāḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।13.6।। पंच महाभूत, अहंकार, बुद्धि, अव्यक्त (प्रकृति), दस इन्द्रियाँ, एक मन, इन्द्रियों के पाँच विषय।।
 

This is Chapter 13 Shloka 7 script:
ichchhā dveṣhaḥ sukhaṁ duḥkhaṁ saṅghātaśh chetanā dhṛitiḥ
etat kṣhetraṁ samāsena sa-vikāram udāhṛitam

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।13.7।। इच्छा, द्वेष, सुख, दुख, संघात (स्थूलदेह), चेतना (अन्त:करण की चेतन वृत्ति) तथा धृति -  इस प्रकार यह क्षेत्र विकारों के सहित संक्षेप में कहा गया है।।
 

This is Chapter 13 Shloka 8 script:
amānitvam adambhitvam ahinsā kṣhāntir ārjavam
āchāryopāsanaṁ śhauchaṁ sthairyam ātma-vinigrahaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।13.8।। अमानित्व, अदम्भित्व, अहिंसा, क्षमा, आर्जव, आचार्य की सेवा, शुद्धि, स्थिरता और आत्मसंयम।।
 

This is Chapter 13 Shloka 9 script:
indriyārtheṣhu vairāgyam anahankāra eva cha
janma-mṛityu-jarā-vyādhi-duḥkha-doṣhānudarśhanam

This is the meaning of the above verse: Non-attachment to objects of the senses, and also the absence of egotism; seeing the evil in birth, death, aging, diseases, and miseries;

This is Chapter 13 Shloka 10 script:
asaktir anabhiṣhvaṅgaḥ putra-dāra-gṛihādiṣhu
nityaṁ cha sama-chittatvam iṣhṭāniṣhṭopapattiṣhu

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।13.10।। आसक्ति तथा पुत्र, पत्नी, गृह आदि में अनभिष्वङ्ग (तादात्म्य का अभाव); और इष्ट और अनिष्ट की प्राप्ति में समचित्तता।।
 

This is Chapter 13 Shloka 11 script:
mayi chānanya-yogena bhaktir avyabhichāriṇī
vivikta-deśha-sevitvam aratir jana-sansadi

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।13.11।। अनन्ययोग के द्वारा मुझमें अव्यभिचारिणी भक्ति; एकान्त स्थान में रहने का स्वभाव और (असंस्कृत) जनों के समुदाय में अरुचि।।
 

This is Chapter 13 Shloka 12 script:
adhyātma-jñāna-nityatvaṁ tattva-jñānārtha-darśhanam
etaj jñānam iti proktam ajñānaṁ yad ato ’nyathā

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।13.12।। अध्यात्मज्ञान में नित्यत्व अर्थात् स्थिरता तथा तत्त्वज्ञान के अर्थ रूप परमात्मा का दर्शन, यह सब तो ज्ञान कहा गया है, और जो इससे विपरीत है, वह अज्ञान है।।
 

This is Chapter 13 Shloka 13 script:
jñeyaṁ yat tat pravakṣhyāmi yaj jñātvāmṛitam aśhnute
anādi mat-paraṁ brahma na sat tan nāsad uchyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: I shall speak of that which is to be known, by realizing which one attains immortality. The supreme Brahman is without any beginning; that is called neither being nor non-being.

This is Chapter 13 Shloka 14 script:
sarvataḥ pāṇi-pādaṁ tat sarvato ’kṣhi-śhiro-mukham
sarvataḥ śhrutimal loke sarvam āvṛitya tiṣhṭhati

This is the meaning of the above verse: That Knowable, which has hands and feet everywhere, which has eyes, heads, and mouths everywhere, which has ears everywhere, exists in creatures by pervading them all.

This is Chapter 13 Shloka 15 script:
sarvendriya-guṇābhāsaṁ sarvendriya-vivarjitam
asaktaṁ sarva-bhṛich chaiva nirguṇaṁ guṇa-bhoktṛi cha

This is the meaning of the above verse: Shining by the functions of all the senses, yet without being attached to them; unattached, yet supporting all; devoid of qualities, yet the experiencer of them.

This is Chapter 13 Shloka 16 script:
bahir antaśh cha bhūtānām acharaṁ charam eva cha
sūkṣhmatvāt tad avijñeyaṁ dūra-sthaṁ chāntike cha tat

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।13.16।। (वह ब्रह्म) भूत मात्र के अन्तर्बाह्य स्थित है; वह चर है और अचर भी। सूक्ष्म होने से वह अविज्ञेय है; वह सुदूर और अत्यन्त समीपस्थ भी है।।
 

This is Chapter 13 Shloka 17 script:
avibhaktaṁ cha bhūteṣhu vibhaktam iva cha sthitam
bhūta-bhartṛi cha taj jñeyaṁ grasiṣhṇu prabhaviṣhṇu cha

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।13.17।। और वह अविभक्त है, तथापि वह भूतों में विभक्त के समान स्थित है। वह ज्ञेय ब्रह्म भूतमात्र का भर्ता, संहारकर्ता और उत्पत्ति कर्ता है।।
 

This is Chapter 13 Shloka 18 script:
jyotiṣhām api taj jyotis tamasaḥ param uchyate
jñānaṁ jñeyaṁ jñāna-gamyaṁ hṛidi sarvasya viṣhṭhitam

This is the meaning of the above verse: The light of all lights is said to be beyond Tamas (darkness); it is known to be knowledge, to be attained through knowledge, and to be present in the hearts of all.

This is Chapter 13 Shloka 19 script:
iti kṣhetraṁ tathā jñānaṁ jñeyaṁ choktaṁ samāsataḥ
mad-bhakta etad vijñāya mad-bhāvāyopapadyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: Thus, the Ksetra, knowledge, and the object of knowledge have been briefly set forth. On knowing this, My devotee becomes fit to attain My state.

This is Chapter 13 Shloka 20 script:
prakṛitiṁ puruṣhaṁ chaiva viddhy anādī ubhāv api
vikārānśh cha guṇānśh chaiva viddhi prakṛiti-sambhavān

This is the meaning of the above verse: Know both Nature and the individual soul to be verily without beginning; know the modifications as well as the qualities to be born of Nature.

This is Chapter 13 Shloka 21 script:
kārya-kāraṇa-kartṛitve hetuḥ prakṛitir uchyate
puruṣhaḥ sukha-duḥkhānāṁ bhoktṛitve hetur uchyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: The Prakṛti is said to be the cause of agency to the body (Kārya) and sense-organs (Karaṇa); the Self is said to be the cause of experiencing pleasure and pain.

This is Chapter 13 Shloka 22 script:
puruṣhaḥ prakṛiti-stho hi bhuṅkte prakṛiti-jān guṇān
kāraṇaṁ guṇa-saṅgo ’sya sad-asad-yoni-janmasu

This is the meaning of the above verse: (a) Indeed, the self seated in Prakrti experiences the Gunas born of Prakrti.
(b) Its attachment to these Gunas is the cause of birth in good and evil wombs.

This is Chapter 13 Shloka 23 script:
upadraṣhṭānumantā cha bhartā bhoktā maheśhvaraḥ
paramātmeti chāpy ukto dehe ’smin puruṣhaḥ paraḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: The self in the body is called the spectator, approver, supporter, experiencer, great lord, and supreme self.

This is Chapter 13 Shloka 24 script:
ya evaṁ vetti puruṣhaṁ prakṛitiṁ cha guṇaiḥ saha
sarvathā vartamāno ’pi na sa bhūyo ’bhijāyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: He who understands the Self and Prakriti, along with the Gunas, will not be born again, no matter what state he may be in.

This is Chapter 13 Shloka 25 script:
dhyānenātmani paśhyanti kechid ātmānam ātmanā
anye sānkhyena yogena karma-yogena chāpare

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।13.25।। कोई पुरुष ध्यान के अभ्यास से आत्मा को आत्मा (हृदय) में आत्मा (शुद्ध बुद्धि) के द्वारा देखते हैं; अन्य लोग सांख्य योग के द्वारा तथा कोई साधक कर्मयोग से (आत्मा को देखते हैं )।।
 

This is Chapter 13 Shloka 26 script:
anye tv evam ajānantaḥ śhrutvānyebhya upāsate
te ’pi chātitaranty eva mṛityuṁ śhruti-parāyaṇāḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Others, too, who do not know thus, worship, having heard of It from others; they, too, cross beyond death, regarding what they have heard as the supreme refuge.

This is Chapter 13 Shloka 27 script:
yāvat sañjāyate kiñchit sattvaṁ sthāvara-jaṅgamam
kṣhetra-kṣhetrajña-sanyogāt tad viddhi bharatarṣhabha

This is the meaning of the above verse: Whatever being is born, whether it be moving or stationary, know, O Arjuna, that it is through the combination of the Ksetra (body) and Ksetrajna (knower of the Field).

This is Chapter 13 Shloka 28 script:
samaṁ sarveṣhu bhūteṣhu tiṣhṭhantaṁ parameśhvaram
vinaśhyatsv avinaśhyantaṁ yaḥ paśhyati sa paśhyati

This is the meaning of the above verse: Who sees the supreme ruler dwelling alike in all bodies and never perishing, even when they perish, he indeed sees.

This is Chapter 13 Shloka 29 script:
samaṁ paśhyan hi sarvatra samavasthitam īśhvaram
na hinasty ātmanātmānaṁ tato yāti parāṁ gatim

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।13.29।। निश्चय ही, वह पुरुष सर्वत्र सम भाव से स्थित परमेश्वर को समान हुआ आत्मा (स्वयं) के द्वारा आत्मा (स्वयं) का नाश नहीं करता है, इससे वह परम गति को प्राप्त होता है।।
 

This is Chapter 13 Shloka 30 script:
prakṛityaiva cha karmāṇi kriyamāṇāni sarvaśhaḥ
yaḥ paśhyati tathātmānam akartāraṁ sa paśhyati

This is the meaning of the above verse: And he who sees actions being done in various ways by Nature itself, and also the Self as the non-agent, he sees.

This is Chapter 13 Shloka 31 script:
yadā bhūta-pṛithag-bhāvam eka-stham anupaśhyati
tata eva cha vistāraṁ brahma sampadyate tadā

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।13.31।। यह पुरुष जब भूतों के पृथक् भावों को एक (परमात्मा) में स्थित देखता है तथा उस (परमात्मा) से ही यह विस्तार हुआ जानता है, तब वह ब्रह्म को प्राप्त होता है।।
 

This is Chapter 13 Shloka 32 script:
anāditvān nirguṇatvāt paramātmāyam avyayaḥ
śharīra-stho ’pi kaunteya na karoti na lipyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।13.32।। हे कौन्तेय ! अनादि और निर्गुण होने से यह परमात्मा अव्यय है। शरीर में स्थित हुआ भी, वस्तुत:, वह न (कर्म) करता है और न (फलों से) लिप्त होता है।।
 

This is Chapter 13 Shloka 33 script:
yathā sarva-gataṁ saukṣhmyād ākāśhaṁ nopalipyate
sarvatrāvasthito dehe tathātmā nopalipyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।13.33।। जिस प्रकार सर्वगत आकाश सूक्ष्म होने के कारण लिप्त नहीं होता, उसी प्रकार सर्वत्र देह में स्थित आत्मा लिप्त नहीं होता।।
 

This is Chapter 13 Shloka 34 script:
yathā prakāśhayaty ekaḥ kṛitsnaṁ lokam imaṁ raviḥ
kṣhetraṁ kṣhetrī tathā kṛitsnaṁ prakāśhayati bhārata

This is the meaning of the above verse: As the one Sun illuminates the entire earth, so the Lord illuminates the entire universe.

This is Chapter 13 Shloka 35 script:
kṣhetra-kṣhetrajñayor evam antaraṁ jñāna-chakṣhuṣhā
bhūta-prakṛiti-mokṣhaṁ cha ye vidur yānti te param

This is the meaning of the above verse: Those who, through the eye of wisdom, know the distinction between the field and the Knower of the field, and the annihilation of the Matrix of beings, reach the Supreme.

