This is the script of the Bhakti Yoga. It is the chapter number 12. It has 20 shlokas. The name means The Yoga of Devotion.

The twelfth chapter of the Bhagavad Gita is "Bhakti Yoga". In this chapter, Krishna emphasizes the superiority of Bhakti Yoga (the path of devotion) over all other types of spiritual disciplines and reveals various aspects of devotion. He further explains that the devotees who perform pure devotional service to Him, with their consciousness, merged in Him and all their actions dedicated to Him, are quickly liberated from the cycle of life and death. He also describes the various qualities of the devotees who are very dear to Him.

This is Chapter 12 Shloka 1 script:
arjuna uvācha
evaṁ satata-yuktā ye bhaktās tvāṁ paryupāsate
ye chāpy akṣharam avyaktaṁ teṣhāṁ ke yoga-vittamāḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Arjuna said: "Which of these devotees, who are ever dedicated and meditate on You, and those who meditate on the Unmanifested and Immutable, are the best experiencers of yoga [here, yoga means samadhi, spiritual absorption]?"

This is Chapter 12 Shloka 2 script:
śhrī-bhagavān uvācha
mayy āveśhya mano ye māṁ nitya-yuktā upāsate
śhraddhayā parayopetās te me yuktatamā matāḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: The Blessed Lord said, "In My opinion, those who fix their minds on Me, worship Me ever steadfastly, and are endowed with supreme faith, are the best in Yoga."

This is Chapter 12 Shloka 3 script:
ye tv akṣharam anirdeśhyam avyaktaṁ paryupāsate
sarvatra-gam achintyañcha kūṭa-stham achalandhruvam
 sanniyamyendriya-grāmaṁ sarvatra sama-buddhayaḥ
te prāpnuvanti mām eva sarva-bhūta-hite ratāḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Those, however, who meditate in every way on the immutable, the indefinable, the unmanifest, which is all-pervasive, incomprehensible, unchanging, immovable, and constant.

This is Chapter 12 Shloka 4 script:
sanniyamyendriya-grāmaṁ  sarvatra    sama-buddhayaḥ  te  prāpnuvanti mām eva sarva-bhūta-hite    ratāḥ
This is the meaning of the above verse: By fully controlling all the organs and remaining even-minded at all times, they, engaged in the welfare of all beings, attain Me alone.

This is Chapter 12 Shloka 5 script:
kleśho ’dhikataras teṣhām avyaktāsakta-chetasām
avyaktā hi gatir duḥkhaṁ dehavadbhir avāpyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: For those whose minds are attached to the Unmanifested, the struggle is greater; for the Goal, which is the Unmanifest, is attained with difficulty by the embodied ones.

This is Chapter 12 Shloka 6 script:
ye tu sarvāṇi karmāṇi mayi sannyasya mat-paraḥ
ananyenaiva yogena māṁ dhyāyanta upāsate

This is the meaning of the above verse: As for those who, having dedicated all actions to Me and accepted Me as the supreme, meditate on Me with single-minded concentration only-.

This is Chapter 12 Shloka 7 script:
teṣhām ahaṁ samuddhartā mṛityu-saṁsāra-sāgarāt
bhavāmi na chirāt pārtha mayy āveśhita-chetasām

This is the meaning of the above verse: O son of Prtha, for those who have their minds absorbed in Me, I become, without delay, the deliverer from the sea of the world, which is fraught with death.

This is Chapter 12 Shloka 8 script:
mayy eva mana ādhatsva mayi buddhiṁ niveśhaya
nivasiṣhyasi mayy eva ata ūrdhvaṁ na sanśhayaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Fix the mind on Me alone; in Me alone let the intellect rest. There is no doubt that hereafter you will dwell in Me alone.

This is Chapter 12 Shloka 9 script:
atha chittaṁ samādhātuṁ na śhaknoṣhi mayi sthiram
abhyāsa-yogena tato mām ichchhāptuṁ dhanañjaya

This is the meaning of the above verse: If, however, you are unable to establish the mind steadily on Me, then, O Dhananjaya, seek to attain Me through the yoga of practice.

This is Chapter 12 Shloka 10 script:
abhyāse ’py asamartho ’si mat-karma-paramo bhava
mad-artham api karmāṇi kurvan siddhim avāpsyasi

This is the meaning of the above verse: If you are unable even to practice, be intent on works for Me. By undertaking works for Me as well, you will attain perfection. [Identify with Brahman.]

This is Chapter 12 Shloka 11 script:
athaitad apy aśhakto ’si kartuṁ mad-yogam āśhritaḥ
sarva-karma-phala-tyāgaṁ tataḥ kuru yatātmavān

This is the meaning of the above verse: If you are unable to do even this, then resort to the Yoga for Me and afterwards, control your mind and renounce the results of all your works.

This is Chapter 12 Shloka 12 script:
śhreyo hi jñānam abhyāsāj jñānād dhyānaṁ viśhiṣhyate
dhyānāt karma-phala-tyāgas tyāgāch chhāntir anantaram

This is the meaning of the above verse: Knowledge is superior to blind action, meditation is superior to knowledge, renunciation of the fruit of action is superior to meditation, and peace follows from renunciation.

This is Chapter 12 Shloka 13 script:
adveṣhṭā sarva-bhūtānāṁ maitraḥ karuṇa eva cha
nirmamo nirahankāraḥ sama-duḥkha-sukhaḥ kṣhamī

This is the meaning of the above verse: He who hates no creature, is friendly and compassionate to all, is free from attachment and egoism, is balanced in pleasure and pain, and is forgiving.

This is Chapter 12 Shloka 14 script:
santuṣhṭaḥ satataṁ yogī yatātmā dṛiḍha-niśhchayaḥ
mayy arpita-mano-buddhir yo mad-bhaktaḥ sa me priyaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: He who is ever content, who is a yogi, who has self-control, who has firm conviction, and who has dedicated his mind and intellect to Me—he who is such a devotee of Mine is dear to Me.

This is Chapter 12 Shloka 15 script:
yasmān nodvijate loko lokān nodvijate cha yaḥ
harṣhāmarṣha-bhayodvegair mukto yaḥ sa cha me priyaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।12.15।। जिससे कोई लोक (अर्थात् जीव, व्यक्ति) उद्वेग को प्राप्त नहीं होता और जो स्वयं भी किसी व्यक्ति से उद्वेग अनुभव नहीं करता तथा जो हर्ष, अमर्ष (असहिष्णुता) भय और उद्वेगों से मुक्त है,वह भक्त मुझे प्रिय है।।
 

This is Chapter 12 Shloka 16 script:
anapekṣhaḥ śhuchir dakṣha udāsīno gata-vyathaḥ
sarvārambha-parityāgī yo mad-bhaktaḥ sa me priyaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।12.16।। जो अपेक्षारहित, शुद्ध, दक्ष, उदासीन, व्यथारहित और सर्वकर्मों का संन्यास करने वाला मेरा भक्त है, वह मुझे प्रिय है।।
 

This is Chapter 12 Shloka 17 script:
yo na hṛiṣhyati na dveṣhṭi na śhochati na kāṅkṣhati
śhubhāśhubha-parityāgī bhaktimān yaḥ sa me priyaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।12.17।। जो न हर्षित होता है और न द्वेष करता है; न शोक करता है और न आकांक्षा; तथा जो शुभ और अशुभ को त्याग देता है, वह भक्तिमान् पुरुष मुझे प्रिय है।।
 

This is Chapter 12 Shloka 18 script:
samaḥ śhatrau cha mitre cha tathā mānāpamānayoḥ
śhītoṣhṇa-sukha-duḥkheṣhu samaḥ saṅga-vivarjitaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: He who is the same to foe and friend, honor and dishonor, who is alike to both cold and heat, pleasure and pain, and who is free from all attachments;

This is Chapter 12 Shloka 19 script:
tulya-nindā-stutir maunī santuṣhṭo yena kenachit
aniketaḥ sthira-matir bhaktimān me priyo naraḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: He who regards both blame and praise alike, who is silent and content with any lot, who has no home, who is firm of mind, and who is devoted to Me - such a man is dear to Me.

This is Chapter 12 Shloka 20 script:
ye tu dharmyāmṛitam idaṁ yathoktaṁ paryupāsate
śhraddadhānā mat-paramā bhaktās te ’tīva me priyāḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: But those devotees who follow this nectar of virtuous duty, as taught above, who are full of faith and regard Me as the Supreme, are exceedingly dear to Me.

