This is the script of the Raja Vidya Yoga. It is the chapter number 9. It has 34 shlokas. The name means Yoga through the King of Sciences.

The ninth chapter of the Bhagavad Gita is "Raja Vidya Yoga". In this chapter, Krishna explains that He is Supreme and how this material existence is created, maintained and destroyed by His Yogmaya and all beings come and go under his supervision. He reveals the Role and the Importance of Bhakti (transcendental devotional service) towards our Spiritual Awakening. In such devotion, one must live for the God, offer everything that he possesses to Him and do everything for Him only. One who follows such devotion becomes free from the bonds of this material world and unites with the Lord.

This is Chapter 9 Shloka 1 script:
śhrī bhagavān uvācha
idaṁ tu te guhyatamaṁ pravakṣhyāmyanasūyave
jñānaṁ vijñāna-sahitaṁ yaj jñātvā mokṣhyase ’śhubhāt

This is the meaning of the above verse: The Blessed Lord said: However, to you who are not given to cavilling, I shall speak of this highest secret itself, which is knowledge combined with experience, by realizing which you shall be free from evil.

This is Chapter 9 Shloka 2 script:
rāja-vidyā rāja-guhyaṁ pavitram idam uttamam
pratyakṣhāvagamaṁ dharmyaṁ su-sukhaṁ kartum avyayam

This is the meaning of the above verse: This is the royal science, the royal secret, the supreme purifier, realizable by direct intuitive knowledge, according to righteousness, very easy to perform and imperishable.

This is Chapter 9 Shloka 3 script:
aśhraddadhānāḥ puruṣhā dharmasyāsya parantapa
aprāpya māṁ nivartante mṛityu-samsāra-vartmani

This is the meaning of the above verse: O destroyer of foes, those who are disregarding this Dharma (knowledge of the Self) certainly go round and round, without reaching Me, along the path of transmigration which is fraught with death.

This is Chapter 9 Shloka 4 script:
mayā tatam idaṁ sarvaṁ jagad avyakta-mūrtinā
mat-sthāni sarva-bhūtāni na chāhaṁ teṣhvavasthitaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: This entire universe is pervaded by Me, having an unmanifest form; all beings exist in Me, and I do not exist in them.

This is Chapter 9 Shloka 5 script:
na cha mat-sthāni bhūtāni paśhya me yogam aiśhwaram
bhūta-bhṛin na cha bhūta-stho mamātmā bhūta-bhāvanaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Neither do the beings dwell in Me. Behold My divine Yoga! I am the sustainer and originator of beings, but My Self is not contained within the beings.

This is Chapter 9 Shloka 6 script:
yathākāśha-sthito nityaṁ vāyuḥ sarvatra-go mahān
tathā sarvāṇi bhūtāni mat-sthānītyupadhāraya

This is the meaning of the above verse: Understand thus that just as the voluminous wind, moving everywhere, is ever present in space, similarly all beings abide in Me.

This is Chapter 9 Shloka 7 script:
sarva-bhūtāni kaunteya prakṛitiṁ yānti māmikām
kalpa-kṣhaye punas tāni kalpādau visṛijāmyaham

This is the meaning of the above verse: O son of Kunti, all the beings at the end of a cycle go back to My Prakrti. At the beginning of a cycle, I project them forth again.

This is Chapter 9 Shloka 8 script:
prakṛitiṁ svām avaṣhṭabhya visṛijāmi punaḥ punaḥ
bhūta-grāmam imaṁ kṛitsnam avaśhaṁ prakṛiter vaśhāt

This is the meaning of the above verse: Keeping My own prakṛti under control, I project forth again and again this multitude of beings, which are powerless due to the influence of their own nature.

This is Chapter 9 Shloka 9 script:
na cha māṁ tāni karmāṇi nibadhnanti dhanañjaya
udāsīna-vad āsīnam asaktaṁ teṣhu karmasu

This is the meaning of the above verse: O Dhananjaya, those actions do not bind Me, for I remain unconcerned and unattached to them.

This is Chapter 9 Shloka 10 script:
mayādhyakṣheṇa prakṛitiḥ sūyate sa-charācharam
hetunānena kaunteya jagad viparivartate

This is the meaning of the above verse: O son of Kunti! On account of Me, who remain only as an observer and the prime cause, My nature gives birth to both the moving and the unmoving; hence, this world moves in a circle.

This is Chapter 9 Shloka 11 script:
avajānanti māṁ mūḍhā mānuṣhīṁ tanum āśhritam
paraṁ bhāvam ajānanto mama bhūta-maheśhvaram

This is the meaning of the above verse: Not knowing My supreme nature as the Lord of all beings, foolish people disregard Me, who have taken a human form.

This is Chapter 9 Shloka 12 script:
moghāśhā mogha-karmāṇo mogha-jñānā vichetasaḥ
rākṣhasīm āsurīṁ chaiva prakṛitiṁ mohinīṁ śhritāḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Possessed of vain hopes, vain actions, vain knowledge, and senselessness, they become verily possessed of the deceptive disposition of fiends and demons.

This is Chapter 9 Shloka 13 script:
mahātmānas tu māṁ pārtha daivīṁ prakṛitim āśhritāḥ
bhajantyananya-manaso jñātvā bhūtādim avyayam

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।9.13।। परन्तु हे पृथानन्दन ! दैवी प्रकृतिके आश्रित अनन्यमनवाले महात्मालोग मुझे सम्पूर्ण प्राणियोंका आदि और अविनाशी समझकर मेरा भजन करते हैं।

This is Chapter 9 Shloka 14 script:
satataṁ kīrtayanto māṁ yatantaśh cha dṛiḍha-vratāḥ
namasyantaśh cha māṁ bhaktyā nitya-yuktā upāsate

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।9.14।। नित्य- (मेरेमें) युक्त मनुष्य दृढ़व्रती होकर लगनपूर्वक साधनमें लगे हुए और भक्तिपूर्वक कीर्तन करते हुए तथा नमस्कार करते हुये निरन्तर मेरी उपासना करते हैं।

This is Chapter 9 Shloka 15 script:
jñāna-yajñena chāpyanye yajanto mām upāsate
ekatvena pṛithaktvena bahudhā viśhvato-mukham

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।9.15।। दूसरे साधक ज्ञानयज्ञके द्वारा एकीभावसे (अभेद-भावसे) मेरा पूजन करते हुए मेरी उपासना करते हैं और दूसरे कई साधक अपनेको पृथक् मानकर चारों तरफ मुखवाले मेरे विराट्ररुपकी अर्थात् संसारको मेरा विराट्ररुप मानकर (सेव्य-सेवकभावसे) मेरी अनेक प्रकारसे उपासना करते हैं।

This is Chapter 9 Shloka 16 script:
ahaṁ kratur ahaṁ yajñaḥ svadhāham aham auṣhadham
mantro ’ham aham evājyam aham agnir ahaṁ hutam

This is the meaning of the above verse: I am the ritual, I am the sacrifice, I am the oblation, I am the medicinal herb, I am the mantra, I am the clarified butter, I am the fire, and I am the act of offering.

This is Chapter 9 Shloka 17 script:
pitāham asya jagato mātā dhātā pitāmahaḥ
vedyaṁ pavitram oṁkāra ṛik sāma yajur eva cha

This is the meaning of the above verse: I am the Father of the universe, its Mother, Nourisher, and Grandfather; I am the Knowable and the Pure; I am Om, and I am the Sacred Scriptures.

This is Chapter 9 Shloka 18 script:
gatir bhartā prabhuḥ sākṣhī nivāsaḥ śharaṇaṁ suhṛit
prabhavaḥ pralayaḥ sthānaṁ nidhānaṁ bījam avyayam

This is the meaning of the above verse: I am the goal, the sustainer, the Lord, the witness, the home, the shelter, the lover, and the origin; I am life and death; I am the fountain and the imperishable seed.

This is Chapter 9 Shloka 19 script:
tapāmyaham ahaṁ varṣhaṁ nigṛihṇāmyutsṛijāmi cha
amṛitaṁ chaiva mṛityuśh cha sad asach chāham arjuna

This is the meaning of the above verse: As the sun, I give heat; I withhold and send forth the rain; I am immortality and also death, existence and non-existence, O Arjuna.

This is Chapter 9 Shloka 20 script:
trai-vidyā māṁ soma-pāḥ pūta-pāpā
yajñair iṣhṭvā svar-gatiṁ prārthayante
te puṇyam āsādya surendra-lokam
aśhnanti divyān divi deva-bhogān

This is the meaning of the above verse: Those who are versed in the three Vedas, having been purified from sin by drinking the Soma juice, pray for passage to heaven and worship Me through sacrifices. Reaching the holy realm of the chief of the gods, they enjoy celestial pleasures in heaven.

This is Chapter 9 Shloka 21 script:
te taṁ bhuktvā swarga-lokaṁ viśhālaṁ
kṣhīṇe puṇye martya-lokaṁ viśhanti
evaṁ trayī-dharmam anuprapannā
gatāgataṁ kāma-kāmā labhante

This is the meaning of the above verse: Having enjoyed the spacious world of heaven, they return to the world of mortals, their merit having been exhausted. Thus, those who follow the Vedic rituals and are drawn by desires come and go.

This is Chapter 9 Shloka 22 script:
ananyāśh chintayanto māṁ ye janāḥ paryupāsate
teṣhāṁ nityābhiyuktānāṁ yoga-kṣhemaṁ vahāmyaham

This is the meaning of the above verse: For those men who worship Me alone, thinking of no one else, for those ever-united, I secure what they have not already possessed and preserve what they already possess.

This is Chapter 9 Shloka 23 script:
ye ’pyanya-devatā-bhaktā yajante śhraddhayānvitāḥ
te ’pi mām eva kaunteya yajantyavidhi-pūrvakam

This is the meaning of the above verse: O son of Kunti! Even those who are devotees of other gods and worship them with faith, worship Me alone, but following non-injunctive practices.

This is Chapter 9 Shloka 24 script:
ahaṁ hi sarva-yajñānāṁ bhoktā cha prabhureva cha
na tu mām abhijānanti tattvenātaśh chyavanti te

This is the meaning of the above verse: Indeed, I am the enjoyer and the Lord of all sacrifices, but they do not know Me truly. Therefore, they fall.

This is Chapter 9 Shloka 25 script:
yānti deva-vratā devān pitṝīn yānti pitṛi-vratāḥ
bhūtāni yānti bhūtejyā yānti mad-yājino ’pi mām

This is the meaning of the above verse: Those who worship the gods reach the gods; the worshippers of the manes go to the manes; the devotees of the Beings reach the Beings; and those who worship Me come to Me.

This is Chapter 9 Shloka 26 script:
patraṁ puṣhpaṁ phalaṁ toyaṁ yo me bhaktyā prayachchhati
tadahaṁ bhaktyupahṛitam aśhnāmi prayatātmanaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Whoever offers Me a leaf, a flower, a fruit, or even a little water with devotion, I accept that offering of devotion from one who has a well-controlled mind.

This is Chapter 9 Shloka 27 script:
yat karoṣhi yad aśhnāsi yaj juhoṣhi dadāsi yat
yat tapasyasi kaunteya tat kuruṣhva mad-arpaṇam

This is the meaning of the above verse: Whatever you do, whatever you eat, whatever you offer in sacrifice, whatever you give, whatever austerity you practice, O Arjuna, do it as an offering to Me.

This is Chapter 9 Shloka 28 script:
śhubhāśhubha-phalair evaṁ mokṣhyase karma-bandhanaiḥ
sannyāsa-yoga-yuktātmā vimukto mām upaiṣhyasi

This is the meaning of the above verse: Thus, you shall be freed from the bonds of actions yielding good and evil fruits; with the mind steadfast in the Yoga of renunciation, and liberated, you shall come to Me.

This is Chapter 9 Shloka 29 script:
samo ’haṁ sarva-bhūteṣhu na me dveṣhyo ’sti na priyaḥ
ye bhajanti tu māṁ bhaktyā mayi te teṣhu chāpyaham

This is the meaning of the above verse: I am the same to all beings; I do not favour any, nor do I hate any. However, those who worship Me devotedly, they live in Me and I in them.

This is Chapter 9 Shloka 30 script:
api chet su-durāchāro bhajate mām ananya-bhāk
sādhur eva sa mantavyaḥ samyag vyavasito hi saḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Even if the most sinful worships Me, with devotion to no one else, he should indeed be regarded as righteous, for he has rightly resolved.

This is Chapter 9 Shloka 31 script:
kṣhipraṁ bhavati dharmātmā śhaśhvach-chhāntiṁ nigachchhati
kaunteya pratijānīhi na me bhaktaḥ praṇaśhyati

This is the meaning of the above verse: Quickly, he becomes righteous and obtains everlasting peace. Affirm on My behalf, O Arjuna, that My devotee never perishes.

This is Chapter 9 Shloka 32 script:
māṁ hi pārtha vyapāśhritya ye ’pi syuḥ pāpa-yonayaḥ
striyo vaiśhyās tathā śhūdrās te ’pi yānti parāṁ gatim

This is the meaning of the above verse: For, taking refuge in Me, they who, O Arjuna, may be of a sinful birth—women, Vaisyas, and Sudras—attain the Supreme Goal.

This is Chapter 9 Shloka 33 script:
kiṁ punar brāhmaṇāḥ puṇyā bhaktā rājarṣhayas tathā
anityam asukhaṁ lokam imaṁ prāpya bhajasva mām

This is the meaning of the above verse: How much more easily, then, do Brahmins and devoted royal saints attain the goal? Having come to this impermanent and unhappy world, do thou worship Me.

This is Chapter 9 Shloka 34 script:
man-manā bhava mad-bhakto mad-yājī māṁ namaskuru
mām evaiṣhyasi yuktvaivam ātmānaṁ mat-parāyaṇaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Fix your mind on Me, devote yourself to Me, sacrifice for Me, surrender to Me, make Me the object of your aspirations, and you shall assuredly become one with Me, Who am your own Self.

