This is the script of the Sankhya Yoga. It is the chapter number 2. It has 72 shlokas. The name means Transcendental Knowledge.

The second chapter of the Bhagavad Gita is "Sankhya Yoga". This is the most important chapter of the Bhagavad Gita as Lord Krishna condenses the teachings of the entire Gita in this chapter. This chapter is the essence of the entire Gita. 
"Sankhya Yoga" can be categorized into 4 main topics - 
1. Arjuna completely surrenders himself to Lord Krishna and accepts his position as a disciple and Krishna as his Guru. He requests Krishna to guide him on how to dismiss his sorrow.
2. Explanation of the main cause of all grief, which is ignorance of the true nature of Self.
3. Karma Yoga - the discipline of selfless action without being attached to its fruits.
4. Description of a Perfect Man - One whose mind is steady and one-pointed.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 1 script:
sañjaya uvācha
taṁ tathā kṛipayāviṣhṭamaśhru pūrṇākulekṣhaṇam
viṣhīdantamidaṁ vākyam uvācha madhusūdanaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Sanjaya said: To him, who was thus overcome with pity, despondent, with eyes full of tears and agitated, Madhusudana (the destroyer of Madhu) or Krishna spoke these words.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 2 script:
śhrī bhagavān uvācha
kutastvā kaśhmalamidaṁ viṣhame samupasthitam
anārya-juṣhṭamaswargyam akīrti-karam arjuna

This is the meaning of the above verse: The Blessed Lord said, "From whence has this perilous strait come upon you, this dejection which is unworthy of you, disgraceful, and which will close the gates of heaven upon you, O Arjuna?"

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 3 script:
klaibyaṁ mā sma gamaḥ pārtha naitat tvayyupapadyate
kṣhudraṁ hṛidaya-daurbalyaṁ tyaktvottiṣhṭha parantapa

This is the meaning of the above verse: Do not yield to impotence, O Arjuna, son of Pritha. It does not befit you. Cast off this mean weakness of the heart! Stand up, O conqueror of foes!

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 4 script:
arjuna uvācha
kathaṁ bhīṣhmam ahaṁ sankhye droṇaṁ cha madhusūdana
iṣhubhiḥ pratiyotsyāmi pūjārhāvari-sūdana

This is the meaning of the above verse: Arjuna said, "O Madhusudana, how can I fight in battle with arrows against Bhishma and Drona, who are worthy of being worshipped, O destroyer of enemies?"

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 5 script:
gurūnahatvā hi mahānubhāvān
śhreyo bhoktuṁ bhaikṣhyamapīha loke
hatvārtha-kāmāṁstu gurūnihaiva
bhuñjīya bhogān rudhira-pradigdhān

This is the meaning of the above verse: Better it is, indeed, in this world to accept alms than to slay the most noble teachers. But if I were to kill them, even in this world, all my enjoyments of wealth and fulfilled desires would be stained with their blood.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 6 script:
na chaitadvidmaḥ kataranno garīyo
yadvā jayema yadi vā no jayeyuḥ
yāneva hatvā na jijīviṣhāmas
te ’vasthitāḥ pramukhe dhārtarāṣhṭrāḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: I can hardly tell which would be better, that we should conquer them or that they should conquer us. Even the sons of Dhritarashtra, whom we do not wish to slay, stand facing us.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 7 script:
kārpaṇya-doṣhopahata-svabhāvaḥ
pṛichchhāmi tvāṁ dharma-sammūḍha-chetāḥ
yach-chhreyaḥ syānniśhchitaṁ brūhi tanme
śhiṣhyaste ’haṁ śhādhi māṁ tvāṁ prapannam

This is the meaning of the above verse: With my nature overpowered by weak commiseration, my mind bewildered about duty, I supplicate You. Tell me for certain what is better; I am Your disciple, having taken refuge in You. Instruct me.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 8 script:
na hi prapaśhyāmi mamāpanudyād
yach-chhokam uchchhoṣhaṇam-indriyāṇām
avāpya bhūmāv-asapatnamṛiddhaṁ
rājyaṁ surāṇāmapi chādhipatyam

This is the meaning of the above verse: I do not see that this sorrow that burns up my senses would be removed, even if I were to attain prosperous and unrivaled dominion on earth or lordship over the gods.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 9 script:
sañjaya uvācha
evam-uktvā hṛiṣhīkeśhaṁ guḍākeśhaḥ parantapa
na yotsya iti govindam uktvā tūṣhṇīṁ babhūva ha

This is the meaning of the above verse: Sanjaya said: Having spoken thus to Hrsikesa (Krsna), Gudakesa (Arjuna), the afflictor of foes, verily became silent, telling Govinda, 'I shall not fight.'

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 10 script:
tam-uvācha hṛiṣhīkeśhaḥ prahasanniva bhārata
senayorubhayor-madhye viṣhīdantam-idaṁ vachaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: O King, to him who was thus sorrowing between the two armies, Sri Krishna spoke the following words, as if smiling (by way of ridicule).

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 11 script:
śhrī bhagavān uvācha
aśhochyān-anvaśhochas-tvaṁ prajñā-vādānśh cha bhāṣhase
gatāsūn-agatāsūnśh-cha nānuśhochanti paṇḍitāḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: The Lord said, "You grieve for those who should not be grieved for; yet you speak words of wisdom. The wise grieve neither for the dead nor for the living."

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 12 script:
na tvevāhaṁ jātu nāsaṁ na tvaṁ neme janādhipāḥ
na chaiva na bhaviṣhyāmaḥ sarve vayamataḥ param

This is the meaning of the above verse: There never was a time when I did not exist, nor you, nor any of these kings. Nor will there be any time in the future when all of us shall cease to exist.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 13 script:
dehino ’smin yathā dehe kaumāraṁ yauvanaṁ jarā
tathā dehāntara-prāptir dhīras tatra na muhyati

This is the meaning of the above verse: As boyhood, youth, and decrepitude are to an embodied being in this present body, so is the acquisition of another body. Therefore, an intelligent person does not get deluded.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 14 script:
mātrā-sparśhās tu kaunteya śhītoṣhṇa-sukha-duḥkha-dāḥ
āgamāpāyino ’nityās tans-titikṣhasva bhārata

This is the meaning of the above verse: The contact of the senses with their objects, O Arjuna, gives rise to feelings of cold and heat, pleasure and pain. They come and go, never lasting long. Endure them, O Arjuna.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 15 script:
yaṁ hi na vyathayantyete puruṣhaṁ puruṣharṣhabha
sama-duḥkha-sukhaṁ dhīraṁ so ’mṛitatvāya kalpate

This is the meaning of the above verse: For, he whom these do not affect, O chief of men, and to whom pain and pleasure are equal - that steadfast man alone is worthy of immortality.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 16 script:
nāsato vidyate bhāvo nābhāvo vidyate sataḥ
ubhayorapi dṛiṣhṭo ’nta stvanayos tattva-darśhibhiḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: The unreal never comes into being, the real never ceases to be. The truth about these two is seen by the seers.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 17 script:
avināśhi tu tadviddhi yena sarvam idaṁ tatam
vināśham avyayasyāsya na kaśhchit kartum arhati

This is the meaning of the above verse: Know that to be indestructible by which all this is pervaded. No one can cause the destruction of this immutable.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 18 script:
antavanta ime dehā nityasyoktāḥ śharīriṇaḥ
anāśhino ’prameyasya tasmād yudhyasva bhārata

This is the meaning of the above verse: The material bodies that this Eternal, Indestructible, and Immeasurable Spirit inhabits are all finite; therefore, fight, O valiant man!

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 19 script:
ya enaṁ vetti hantāraṁ yaśh chainaṁ manyate hatam
ubhau tau na vijānīto nāyaṁ hanti na hanyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: He who takes the Self to be the slayer and he who thinks it is slain, neither of them knows. It does not slay, nor is it slain.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 20 script:
na jāyate mriyate vā kadāchin
nāyaṁ bhūtvā bhavitā vā na bhūyaḥ
ajo nityaḥ śhāśhvato ’yaṁ purāṇo
na hanyate hanyamāne śharīre

This is the meaning of the above verse: It is not born, nor does it ever die; after having been, it again does not cease to be; unborn, eternal, changeless, and ancient, it is not killed when the body is killed.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 21 script:
vedāvināśhinaṁ nityaṁ ya enam ajam avyayam
kathaṁ sa puruṣhaḥ pārtha kaṁ ghātayati hanti kam

This is the meaning of the above verse: He who knows this self to be indestructible, unborn, unchanging, and thus eternal—how, O Arjuna, does he cause anyone to be killed, and whom does he kill?

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 22 script:
vāsānsi jīrṇāni yathā vihāya
navāni gṛihṇāti naro ’parāṇi
tathā śharīrāṇi vihāya jīrṇānya
nyāni sanyāti navāni dehī

This is the meaning of the above verse: Just as a man casts off worn-out clothes and puts on new ones, so too the embodied Self casts off worn-out bodies and enters others that are new.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 23 script:
nainaṁ chhindanti śhastrāṇi nainaṁ dahati pāvakaḥ
na chainaṁ kledayantyāpo na śhoṣhayati mārutaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Weapons cannot cut it, fire cannot burn it, water cannot wet it, wind cannot dry it.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 24 script:
achchhedyo ’yam adāhyo ’yam akledyo ’śhoṣhya eva cha
nityaḥ sarva-gataḥ sthāṇur achalo ’yaṁ sanātanaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: This Self cannot be cut, burned, wetted, nor dried up; it is eternal, all-pervasive, stable, immovable, and ancient.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 25 script:
avyakto ’yam achintyo ’yam avikāryo ’yam uchyate
tasmādevaṁ viditvainaṁ nānuśhochitum arhasi

This is the meaning of the above verse: This Self is said to be unmanifested, unthinkable, and unchangeable. Therefore, knowing this to be so, you should not grieve.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 26 script:
atha chainaṁ nitya-jātaṁ nityaṁ vā manyase mṛitam
tathāpi tvaṁ mahā-bāho naivaṁ śhochitum arhasi

This is the meaning of the above verse: But even if thou thinkest of It as constantly being born and constantly dying, even then, O mighty-armed one, thou shouldst not grieve.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 27 script:
jātasya hi dhruvo mṛityur dhruvaṁ janma mṛitasya cha
tasmād aparihārye ’rthe na tvaṁ śhochitum arhasi

This is the meaning of the above verse: For the born, death is certain, and for the dead, birth is certain; therefore, you should not grieve over the inevitable.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 28 script:
avyaktādīni bhūtāni vyakta-madhyāni bhārata
avyakta-nidhanānyeva tatra kā paridevanā

This is the meaning of the above verse: Beings are unmanifest in their beginning, manifest in their middle state, O Arjuna, and unmanifest again in their end. What is there to grieve about?

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 29 script:
āśhcharya-vat paśhyati kaśhchid enan
āśhcharya-vad vadati tathaiva chānyaḥ
āśhcharya-vach chainam anyaḥ śhṛiṇoti
śhrutvāpyenaṁ veda na chaiva kaśhchit

This is the meaning of the above verse: One sees this (the Self) as a wonder; another speaks of it as a wonder; another hears of it as a wonder; yet, having heard, none understands it at all.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 30 script:
dehī nityam avadhyo ’yaṁ dehe sarvasya bhārata
tasmāt sarvāṇi bhūtāni na tvaṁ śhochitum arhasi

This is the meaning of the above verse: This indweller in the body of everyone is ever indestructible, O Arjuna; therefore, you should not grieve for any creature.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 31 script:
swa-dharmam api chāvekṣhya na vikampitum arhasi
dharmyāddhi yuddhāch chhreyo ’nyat kṣhatriyasya na vidyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: Further, having regard to your duty, you should not waver, for there is nothing higher for a Kshatriya than a righteous war.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 32 script:
yadṛichchhayā chopapannaṁ swarga-dvāram apāvṛitam
sukhinaḥ kṣhatriyāḥ pārtha labhante yuddham īdṛiśham

This is the meaning of the above verse: Happy are the Kshatriyas, O Arjuna! who are called to fight in such a battle that comes of its own accord as an open door to heaven.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 33 script:
atha chet tvam imaṁ dharmyaṁ saṅgrāmaṁ na kariṣhyasi
tataḥ sva-dharmaṁ kīrtiṁ cha hitvā pāpam avāpsyasi

This is the meaning of the above verse: But if you will not fight this righteous war, then having abandoned your own duty and reputation, you will incur sin.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 34 script:
akīrtiṁ chāpi bhūtāni
kathayiṣhyanti te ’vyayām
sambhāvitasya chākīrtir
maraṇād atirichyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: People will also recount your everlasting dishonor; and for one who has been honored, dishonor is worse than death.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 35 script:
bhayād raṇād uparataṁ mansyante tvāṁ mahā-rathāḥ
yeṣhāṁ cha tvaṁ bahu-mato bhūtvā yāsyasi lāghavam

This is the meaning of the above verse: The great chariot-warriors will think that you have withdrawn from the battle out of fear, and you will be held in low esteem by those who have held you in high regard.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 36 script:
avāchya-vādānśh cha bahūn vadiṣhyanti tavāhitāḥ
nindantastava sāmarthyaṁ tato duḥkhataraṁ nu kim

This is the meaning of the above verse: Your enemies, scoffing at your power, will speak many abusive words—what could be more painful than this?

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 37 script:
hato vā prāpsyasi swargaṁ jitvā vā bhokṣhyase mahīm
tasmād uttiṣhṭha kaunteya yuddhāya kṛita-niśhchayaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Slain, you will obtain heaven; victorious, you will enjoy the earth; therefore, stand up, O son of Kunti, resolved to fight.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 38 script:
sukha-duḥkhe same kṛitvā lābhālābhau jayājayau
tato yuddhāya yujyasva naivaṁ pāpam avāpsyasi

This is the meaning of the above verse: Having made pleasure and pain, gain and loss, victory and defeat equal, engage in battle for the sake of battle; thus, you shall not incur sin.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 39 script:
eṣhā te ’bhihitā sānkhye
buddhir yoge tvimāṁ śhṛiṇu
buddhyā yukto yayā pārtha
karma-bandhaṁ prahāsyasi

This is the meaning of the above verse: This, which has been taught to you, is wisdom concerning Sankhya. Now listen to wisdom concerning Yoga, endowed with which, O Arjuna, you shall cast off the bonds of action.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 40 script:
nehābhikrama-nāśho ’sti pratyavāyo na vidyate
svalpam apyasya dharmasya trāyate mahato bhayāt

This is the meaning of the above verse: Here, there is no loss due to transgression, and there is no contrary downward course (sin); even a little of this righteous thing can save one from great danger.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 41 script:
vyavasāyātmikā buddhir ekeha kuru-nandana
bahu-śhākhā hyanantāśh cha buddhayo ’vyavasāyinām

This is the meaning of the above verse: Here, O joy of the Kurus, there is only one single-pointed determination; many-branched and endless are the thoughts of the indecisive.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 42 script:
yāmimāṁ puṣhpitāṁ vāchaṁ pravadanty-avipaśhchitaḥ
veda-vāda-ratāḥ pārtha nānyad astīti vādinaḥ
 kāmātmānaḥ swarga-parā janma-karma-phala-pradām
kriyā-viśheṣha-bahulāṁ bhogaiśhwarya-gatiṁ prati

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।2.42।। हे पार्थ  अविवेकी पुरुष वेदवाद में रमते हुये जो यह पुष्पिता (दिखावटी शोभा की) वाणी बोलते हैं? इससे (स्वर्ग से) बढ़कर और कुछ नहीं है।।।

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 43 script:
kāmātmānaḥ svarga-parā 

 janma-karma-phala-pradām

 kriyā-viśeṣa-bahulāṁ

 bhogaiśvarya-gatiṁ prati

This is the meaning of the above verse: - O Partha, the unwise, who rejoice in the letter of the Vedas, say, "There is nothing else." They are full only of worldly desires and they yearn for heaven. They speak flowery words that offer mirth as the fruit of work. They view the Vedas as consisting entirely of varied rites for the attainment of pleasure and power. Those who cling so to pleasure and power are attracted by that speech (offering heavenly rewards) and are unable to develop the resolute will of a focused mind.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 44 script:
bhogaiśwvarya-prasaktānāṁ tayāpahṛita-chetasām
vyavasāyātmikā buddhiḥ samādhau na vidhīyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।2.44।। उस पुष्पित वाणीसे जिसका अन्तःकरण हर लिया गया है अर्थात् भोगोंकी तरफ खिंच गया है और जो भोग तथा ऐश्वर्यमें अत्यन्त आसक्त हैं, उन मनुष्योंकी परमात्मामें निश्चयात्मिका बुद्धि नहीं होती।
 

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 45 script:
trai-guṇya-viṣhayā vedā nistrai-guṇyo bhavārjuna
nirdvandvo nitya-sattva-stho niryoga-kṣhema ātmavān

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।2.45।। हे अर्जुन  वेदों का विषय तीन गुणों से सम्बन्धित (संसार से) है  तुम त्रिगुणातीत? निर्द्वन्द्व? नित्य सत्त्व (शुद्धता) में स्थित? योगक्षेम से रहित और आत्मवान् बनो।।

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 46 script:
yāvān artha udapāne sarvataḥ samplutodake
tāvānsarveṣhu vedeṣhu brāhmaṇasya vijānataḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: A Brahmana with realization has that much utility in all the Vedas as a person has in a well when there is a flood all around.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 47 script:
karmaṇy-evādhikāras te mā phaleṣhu kadāchana
mā karma-phala-hetur bhūr mā te saṅgo ’stvakarmaṇi

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।2.47।। कर्म करने मात्र में तुम्हारा अधिकार है? फल में कभी नहीं। तुम कर्मफल के हेतु वाले मत होना और अकर्म में भी तुम्हारी आसक्ति न हो।।

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 48 script:
yoga-sthaḥ kuru karmāṇi saṅgaṁ tyaktvā dhanañjaya
siddhy-asiddhyoḥ samo bhūtvā samatvaṁ yoga uchyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: Perform action, O Arjuna, being steadfast in Yoga, abandoning attachment and balanced in success and failure; evenness of mind is called Yoga.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 49 script:
dūreṇa hy-avaraṁ karma buddhi-yogād dhanañjaya
buddhau śharaṇam anvichchha kṛipaṇāḥ phala-hetavaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Far lower than the Yoga of wisdom is action, O Arjuna. Seek thou refuge in wisdom; wretched are those whose motive is the fruit.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 50 script:
buddhi-yukto jahātīha ubhe sukṛita-duṣhkṛite
tasmād yogāya yujyasva yogaḥ karmasu kauśhalam

This is the meaning of the above verse: Endowed with wisdom and evenness of mind, one casts off in this life both good and evil deeds; therefore, devote yourself to Yoga; Yoga is skill in action.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 51 script:
karma-jaṁ buddhi-yuktā hi phalaṁ tyaktvā manīṣhiṇaḥ
janma-bandha-vinirmuktāḥ padaṁ gachchhanty-anāmayam

This is the meaning of the above verse: The wise, who possess evenness of mind, relinquish the fruits born of action, and are freed from the bondage of birth, going to the region beyond all ills.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 52 script:
yadā te moha-kalilaṁ buddhir vyatitariṣhyati
tadā gantāsi nirvedaṁ śhrotavyasya śhrutasya cha

This is the meaning of the above verse: When your intellect passes beyond the mire of delusion, then you will attain indifference to what has been heard and what has yet to be heard.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 53 script:
śhruti-vipratipannā te yadā sthāsyati niśhchalā
samādhāv-achalā buddhis tadā yogam avāpsyasi

This is the meaning of the above verse: When your intellect, which is perplexed by the Vedic texts you have read, stands immovable and steady in the Self, then you will attain Self-realization.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 54 script:
arjuna uvācha
sthita-prajñasya kā bhāṣhā samādhi-sthasya keśhava
sthita-dhīḥ kiṁ prabhāṣheta kim āsīta vrajeta kim

This is the meaning of the above verse: Arjuna said, "O Krishna, what is the description of one who has steady wisdom and is merged in the superconscious state? How does one of steady wisdom speak, how do they sit, and how do they walk?"

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 55 script:
śhrī bhagavān uvācha
prajahāti yadā kāmān sarvān pārtha mano-gatān
ātmany-evātmanā tuṣhṭaḥ sthita-prajñas tadochyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: The Blessed Lord said, "When a man completely casts off, O Arjuna, all the desires of the mind and is satisfied in the Self by the Self, then he is said to be one of steady wisdom."

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 56 script:
duḥkheṣhv-anudvigna-manāḥ sukheṣhu vigata-spṛihaḥ
vīta-rāga-bhaya-krodhaḥ sthita-dhīr munir uchyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: He whose mind is not shaken by adversity, who does not long for pleasures, and is free from attachment, fear, and anger, is called a sage of steady wisdom.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 57 script:
yaḥ sarvatrānabhisnehas tat tat prāpya śhubhāśhubham
nābhinandati na dveṣhṭi tasya prajñā pratiṣhṭhitā

This is the meaning of the above verse: He who is everywhere without attachment, upon encountering anything good or bad, neither rejoices nor hastens; his wisdom is firm.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 58 script:
yadā sanharate chāyaṁ kūrmo ’ṅgānīva sarvaśhaḥ
indriyāṇīndriyārthebhyas tasya prajñā pratiṣhṭhitā

This is the meaning of the above verse: When, like the tortoise which withdraws all its limbs on all sides, he withdraws his senses from the sense-objects, then his wisdom becomes steady.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 59 script:
viṣhayā vinivartante nirāhārasya dehinaḥ
rasa-varjaṁ raso ’pyasya paraṁ dṛiṣhṭvā nivartate

This is the meaning of the above verse: The objects of the senses, except for the pleasure they bring, turn away from the abstinent dweller in the body. Even the pleasure turns away from him when the Self, which is supreme over the senses, is seen.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 60 script:
yatato hyapi kaunteya puruṣhasya vipaśhchitaḥ
indriyāṇi pramāthīni haranti prasabhaṁ manaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: The turbulent senses, O Arjuna, can forcibly carry away the mind of even a wise man, though he is ever striving.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 61 script:
tāni sarvāṇi sanyamya yukta āsīta mat-paraḥ
vaśhe hi yasyendriyāṇi tasya prajñā pratiṣhṭhitā

This is the meaning of the above verse: Having controlled all the senses, let him remain in contemplation, regarding Me as supreme; for his knowledge is firmly established when his senses are under control.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 62 script:
dhyāyato viṣhayān puṁsaḥ saṅgas teṣhūpajāyate
saṅgāt sañjāyate kāmaḥ kāmāt krodho ’bhijāyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: To one who is thinking about sense-objects, attachment to them arises; from attachment arises desire, and from desire arises anger.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 63 script:
krodhād bhavati sammohaḥ sammohāt smṛiti-vibhramaḥ
smṛiti-bhranśhād buddhi-nāśho buddhi-nāśhāt praṇaśhyati

This is the meaning of the above verse: Anger leads to delusion, which causes loss of memory; this, in turn, leads to the destruction of discrimination, resulting in destruction.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 64 script:
rāga-dveṣha-viyuktais tu viṣhayān indriyaiśh charan
ātma-vaśhyair-vidheyātmā prasādam adhigachchhati

This is the meaning of the above verse: But by perceiving objects with the organs that are free from attraction and repulsion, and are under his own control, the self-controlled person attains serenity.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 65 script:
prasāde sarva-duḥkhānāṁ hānir asyopajāyate
prasanna-chetaso hyāśhu buddhiḥ paryavatiṣhṭhate

This is the meaning of the above verse: When there is serenity, all his sorrows are eradicated, for the wisdom of one with a serene mind soon becomes firmly established.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 66 script:
nāsti buddhir-ayuktasya na chāyuktasya bhāvanā
na chābhāvayataḥ śhāntir aśhāntasya kutaḥ sukham

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।2.66।। जिसके मन-इन्द्रियाँ संयमित नहीं हैं, ऐसे मनुष्यकी व्यवसायात्मिका बुद्धि नहीं होती और व्यवसायात्मिका बुद्धि न होनेसे उसमें कर्तव्यपरायणताकी भावना नहीं होती। ऐसी भावना न होनेसे उसको शान्ति नहीं मिलती। फिर शान्तिरहित मनुष्यको सुख कैसे मिल सकता है? 
 

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 67 script:
indriyāṇāṁ hi charatāṁ yan mano ’nuvidhīyate
tadasya harati prajñāṁ vāyur nāvam ivāmbhasi

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।2.67।। अपने-अपने विषयोंमें विचरती हुई इन्द्रियोंमेंसे एक ही इन्द्रिय जिस मनको अपना अनुगामी बना लेती है, वह अकेला मन जलमें नौकाको वायुकी तरह इसकी बुद्धिको हर लेता है।
 

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 68 script:
tasmād yasya mahā-bāho nigṛihītāni sarvaśhaḥ
indriyāṇīndriyārthebhyas tasya prajñā pratiṣhṭhitā

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।2.68।। इसलिये हे महाबाहो ! जिस मनुष्यकी इन्द्रियाँ इन्द्रियोंके विषयोंसे सर्वथा निगृहीत (वशमें की हुई) हैं, उसकी बुद्धि स्थिर है।
 

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 69 script:
yā niśhā sarva-bhūtānāṁ tasyāṁ jāgarti sanyamī
yasyāṁ jāgrati bhūtāni sā niśhā paśhyato muneḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।2.69।। सब प्रणियों के लिए जो रात्रि है? उसमें संयमी पुरुष जागता है और जहाँ सब प्राणी जागते हैं? वह (तत्त्व को) देखने वाले मुनि के लिए रात्रि है।।

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 70 script:
āpūryamāṇam achala-pratiṣhṭhaṁ
samudram āpaḥ praviśhanti yadvat
tadvat kāmā yaṁ praviśhanti sarve
sa śhāntim āpnoti na kāma-kāmī

This is the meaning of the above verse: That man attains peace into whom all desires enter, just as waters flow into the sea that remains unchanged even when filled from all sides. Not so one who is desirous of objects.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 71 script:
vihāya kāmān yaḥ sarvān pumānśh charati niḥspṛihaḥ
nirmamo nirahankāraḥ sa śhāntim adhigachchhati

This is the meaning of the above verse: That man attains peace who, after rejecting all desires, moves about free from hankering, without the idea of 'me' and 'mine', and devoid of pride.

This is Chapter 2 Shloka 72 script:
eṣhā brāhmī sthitiḥ pārtha naināṁ prāpya vimuhyati
sthitvāsyām anta-kāle ’pi brahma-nirvāṇam ṛichchhati

This is the meaning of the above verse: O Partha, this is the state of being established in Brahman. One does not become deluded after attaining this; one attains identification with Brahman by being established in this state even in the closing years of one's life.

