This is the script of the Arjuna Visada Yoga. It is the chapter number 1. It has 47 shlokas. The name means Arjuna's Dilemma.

The first chapter of the Bhagavad Gita - "Arjuna Vishada Yoga" introduces the setup, the setting, the characters and the circumstances that led to the epic battle of Mahabharata, fought between the Pandavas and the Kauravas. It outlines the reasons that led to the revelation of the of Bhagavad Gita.
As both armies stand ready for the battle, the mighty warrior Arjuna, on observing the warriors on both sides becomes increasingly sad and depressed due to the fear of losing his relatives and friends and the consequent sins attributed to killing his own relatives. So, he surrenders to Lord Krishna, seeking a solution. Thus, follows the wisdom of the Bhagavad Gita.

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 1 script:
dhṛitarāśhtra uvācha
dharma-kṣhetre kuru-kṣhetre samavetā yuyutsavaḥ
māmakāḥ pāṇḍavāśhchaiva kimakurvata sañjaya

This is the meaning of the above verse: Dhritarashtra said, "What did my people and the sons of Pandu do when they had assembled together, eager for battle, on the holy plain of Kurukshetra, O Sanjaya?"

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 2 script:
sañjaya uvācha
dṛiṣhṭvā tu pāṇḍavānīkaṁ vyūḍhaṁ duryodhanastadā
āchāryamupasaṅgamya rājā vachanamabravīt

This is the meaning of the above verse: Sanjaya said: Having seen the army of the Pandavas drawn up in battle array, King Duryodhana approached his teacher, Drona, and spoke these words.

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 3 script:
paśhyaitāṁ pāṇḍu-putrāṇām āchārya mahatīṁ chamūm
vyūḍhāṁ drupada-putreṇa tava śhiṣhyeṇa dhīmatā

This is the meaning of the above verse: Behold, O Teacher! This mighty army of the sons of Pandu, arrayed by the son of Drupada, thy wise disciple.

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 4 script:
atra śhūrā maheṣhvāsā bhīmārjuna-samā yudhi
yuyudhāno virāṭaśhcha drupadaśhcha mahā-rathaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Here are heroes, mighty archers, equal in battle to Bhima and Arjuna, Yuyudhana (Satyaki), Virata, and Drupada—all mighty warriors.

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 5 script:
dhṛiṣhṭaketuśhchekitānaḥ kāśhirājaśhcha vīryavān
purujit kuntibhojaśhcha śhaibyaśhcha nara-puṅgavaḥ
yudhāmanyuśhcha vikrānta uttamaujāśhcha vīryavān

This is the meaning of the above verse: Corrected:

"Dhrishtaketu, Chekitana, the valiant king of Kasi, Purujit, Kuntibhoja, and Saibya—the best of men."

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 6 script:
saubhadro draupadeyāśhcha sarva eva mahā-rathāḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Corrected:
"The strong Yudhamanyu and the brave Uttamaujas, the son of Subhadra (Abhimanyu, the son of Subhadra and Arjuna), and the sons of Draupadi, all of them great charioteers (great heroes)."

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 7 script:
asmākaṁ tu viśhiṣhṭā ye tānnibodha dwijottama
nāyakā mama sainyasya sanjñārthaṁ tānbravīmi te

This is the meaning of the above verse: "Know also, O best among the twice-born! the names of those who are the most distinguished amongst ourselves, the leaders of my army; these I name to you for your information.

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 8 script:
bhavānbhīṣhmaśhcha karṇaśhcha kṛipaśhcha samitiñjayaḥ
aśhvatthāmā vikarṇaśhcha saumadattis tathaiva cha

This is the meaning of the above verse: "Thou thyself, Bhishma, Karna, Kripa, the victorious in war, Asvatthama, Vikarna, and Bhurisrava, the son of Somadatta—all these are ready for battle."

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 9 script:
anye cha bahavaḥ śhūrā madarthe tyaktajīvitāḥ
nānā-śhastra-praharaṇāḥ sarve yuddha-viśhāradāḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: "And also many other heroes, ready to give up their lives for my sake, armed with various weapons and missiles, all well-skilled in battle.

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 10 script:
aparyāptaṁ tadasmākaṁ balaṁ bhīṣhmābhirakṣhitam
paryāptaṁ tvidameteṣhāṁ balaṁ bhīmābhirakṣhitam

This is the meaning of the above verse: "Our army, marshalled by Bhishma, is insufficient, whereas theirs, marshalled by Bhima, is sufficient.

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 11 script:
ayaneṣhu cha sarveṣhu yathā-bhāgamavasthitāḥ
bhīṣhmamevābhirakṣhantu bhavantaḥ sarva eva hi

This is the meaning of the above verse: Therefore, do all of you, stationed in your respective positions in the several divisions of the army, protect Bhishma alone.

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 12 script:
tasya sañjanayan harṣhaṁ kuru-vṛiddhaḥ pitāmahaḥ
siṁha-nādaṁ vinadyochchaiḥ śhaṅkhaṁ dadhmau pratāpavān

This is the meaning of the above verse: The valiant grandfather, the eldest of the Kurus, loudly sounding a lion's roar, blew the conch to raise his (Duryodhana's) spirits.

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 13 script:
tataḥ śhaṅkhāśhcha bheryaśhcha paṇavānaka-gomukhāḥ
sahasaivābhyahanyanta sa śhabdastumulo ’bhavat

This is the meaning of the above verse: Just immediately afterward, conch shells, kettledrums, tabors, trumpets, and cow-horns blared forth, creating a tumultuous sound.

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 14 script:
tataḥ śhvetairhayairyukte mahati syandane sthitau
mādhavaḥ pāṇḍavaśhchaiva divyau śhaṅkhau pradadhmatuḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Then, Madhava (Krishna) and the son of Pandu (Arjuna), seated in the magnificent chariot yoked with white horses, blew divine conches.

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 15 script:
pāñchajanyaṁ hṛiṣhīkeśho devadattaṁ dhanañjayaḥ
pauṇḍraṁ dadhmau mahā-śhaṅkhaṁ bhīma-karmā vṛikodaraḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Hrsikesa (Krsna) blew the conch Pancajanya; Dhananjaya (Arjuna) blew the conch Devadatta; and Vrkodara (Bhima) of terrible deeds blew the great conch Paundra.

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 16 script:
anantavijayaṁ rājā kuntī-putro yudhiṣhṭhiraḥ
nakulaḥ sahadevaśhcha sughoṣha-maṇipuṣhpakau

This is the meaning of the above verse: King Yudhisthira, the son of Kunti, blew his conch, Anantavijaya, and Nakula and Sahadeva blew their conchs, Sughosa and Manipuspaka.

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 17 script:
kāśhyaśhcha parameṣhvāsaḥ śhikhaṇḍī cha mahā-rathaḥ
dhṛiṣhṭadyumno virāṭaśhcha sātyakiśh chāparājitaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: The king of Kasi, an excellent archer, Sikhandi, the mighty car-warrior, Dhrishtadyumna, Virata, and Satyaki, the unconquered.

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 18 script:
drupado draupadeyāśhcha sarvaśhaḥ pṛithivī-pate
saubhadraśhcha mahā-bāhuḥ śhaṅkhāndadhmuḥ pṛithak pṛithak

This is the meaning of the above verse: Drupada and the sons of Draupadi, O Lord of the Earth, and the son of Subhadra, the mighty-armed, blew their conches each separately.

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 19 script:
sa ghoṣho dhārtarāṣhṭrāṇāṁ hṛidayāni vyadārayat
nabhaśhcha pṛithivīṁ chaiva tumulo nunādayan

This is the meaning of the above verse: The tumultuous sound rent the hearts of Dhritarashtra's party, reverberating through both heaven and earth.

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 20 script:
atha vyavasthitān dṛiṣhṭvā dhārtarāṣhṭrān kapi-dhwajaḥ
pravṛitte śhastra-sampāte dhanurudyamya pāṇḍavaḥ
hṛiṣhīkeśhaṁ tadā vākyam idam āha mahī-pate

This is the meaning of the above verse: Then, seeing the people of Dhritarashtra's party standing arrayed and the discharge of weapons about to begin, Arjuna, the son of Pandu whose ensign was a monkey, took up his bow and said the following to Krishna, O Lord of the Earth.

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 21 script:
arjuna uvācha
senayor ubhayor madhye rathaṁ sthāpaya me ’chyuta

This is the meaning of the above verse: Arjuna said, "O Krishna, place my chariot in the middle between the two armies, so that I may behold those who stand here, desirous to fight, and know with whom I must fight when the battle is about to commence."

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 22 script:
yāvadetān nirīkṣhe ’haṁ yoddhu-kāmān avasthitān
kairmayā saha yoddhavyam asmin raṇa-samudyame

This is the meaning of the above verse: Arjuna said, "O Krishna, place my chariot in the middle between the two armies, so that I may behold those who stand here, desirous to fight, and know with whom I must fight when the battle is about to commence."

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 23 script:
yotsyamānān avekṣhe ’haṁ ya ete ’tra samāgatāḥ
dhārtarāṣhṭrasya durbuddher yuddhe priya-chikīrṣhavaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: For I desire to observe those who are assembled here to fight, wishing to please in battle the evil-minded Duryodhana—the son of Dhritarashtra.

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 24 script:
sañjaya uvācha
evam ukto hṛiṣhīkeśho guḍākeśhena bhārata
senayor ubhayor madhye sthāpayitvā rathottamam

This is the meaning of the above verse: Sanjaya said: Thus addressed by Arjuna, Sri Krishna drew up the best of chariots between the two armies, in full view of Bhisma, Drona, and all the other kings, O Dhrtarastra. He then said, "O Arjuna, behold these assembled Kauravas."

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 25 script:
bhīṣhma-droṇa-pramukhataḥ sarveṣhāṁ cha mahī-kṣhitām
uvācha pārtha paśhyaitān samavetān kurūn iti

This is the meaning of the above verse: Sanjaya said: Thus addressed by Arjuna, Sri Krishna drew up the best of chariots between the two armies, in full view of Bhisma, Drona, and all the other kings, O Dhrtarastra. He then said, "O Arjuna, behold these assembled Kauravas."

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 26 script:
tatrāpaśhyat sthitān pārthaḥ pitṝīn atha pitāmahān
āchāryān mātulān bhrātṝīn putrān pautrān sakhīṁs tathā
śhvaśhurān suhṛidaśh chaiva senayor ubhayor api

This is the meaning of the above verse: Then, as Arjuna looked on, he saw standing there fathers, grandfathers, teachers, uncles, brothers, sons, grandsons, and comrades.

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 27 script:
tān samīkṣhya sa kaunteyaḥ sarvān bandhūn avasthitān
kṛipayā parayāviṣhṭo viṣhīdann idam abravīt

This is the meaning of the above verse: He saw fathers-in-law and friends in both the armies. The son of Kunti, Arjuna, seeing all those kinsmen thus standing arrayed, spoke sorrowfully, deeply filled with pity.

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 28 script:
arjuna uvācha
dṛiṣhṭvemaṁ sva-janaṁ kṛiṣhṇa yuyutsuṁ samupasthitam

This is the meaning of the above verse: Arjuna said, "O Krsna, seeing these relatives and friends who have assembled here with the intention of fighting, my limbs become languid and my mouth becomes completely dry."

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 29 script:
sīdanti mama gātrāṇi mukhaṁ cha pariśhuṣhyati
vepathuśh cha śharīre me roma-harṣhaśh cha jāyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: And there is trembling in my body, and my hair stands on end; the Gandiva (bow) slips from my hand and my skin burns intensely.

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 30 script:
gāṇḍīvaṁ sraṁsate hastāt tvak chaiva paridahyate
na cha śhaknomy avasthātuṁ bhramatīva cha me manaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Moreover, O Kesava (Krishna), I am not able to stand firmly, and my mind seems to be whirling. And I observe the omens to be adverse.

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 31 script:
nimittāni cha paśhyāmi viparītāni keśhava
na cha śhreyo ’nupaśhyāmi hatvā sva-janam āhave

This is the meaning of the above verse: I see, Kṛṣṇa, inauspicious omens. I foresee no good in slaying my kinsmen in battle.

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 32 script:
na kāṅkṣhe vijayaṁ kṛiṣhṇa na cha rājyaṁ sukhāni cha
kiṁ no rājyena govinda kiṁ bhogair jīvitena vā

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।1.32।।हे कृष्ण ! मैं न विजय चाहता हूँ, न राज्य और न सुखों को ही चाहता हूँ। हे गोविन्द ! हमें राज्य से अथवा भोगों से और जीने से भी क्या प्रयोजन है?।


 

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 33 script:
yeṣhām arthe kāṅkṣhitaṁ no rājyaṁ bhogāḥ sukhāni cha
ta ime ’vasthitā yuddhe prāṇāṁs tyaktvā dhanāni cha

This is the meaning of the above verse: Those for whose sake we desire kingdom, enjoyments, and pleasures stand here in battle, having renounced life and wealth.

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 34 script:
āchāryāḥ pitaraḥ putrās tathaiva cha pitāmahāḥ
mātulāḥ śhvaśhurāḥ pautrāḥ śhyālāḥ sambandhinas tathā

This is the meaning of the above verse: all these are to be regarded as one's own self.

Teachers, fathers, sons, grandfathers, uncles, fathers-in-law, grandsons, brothers-in-law, and other kinsmen—all these are to be regarded as one's own self.

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 35 script:
etān na hantum ichchhāmi ghnato ’pi madhusūdana
api trailokya-rājyasya hetoḥ kiṁ nu mahī-kṛite

This is the meaning of the above verse: O Madhusudana, even if I am killed, I do not want to kill these even for the sake of a kingdom extending across the three worlds; let alone doing so for the earth!

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 36 script:
nihatya dhārtarāṣhṭrān naḥ kā prītiḥ syāj janārdana
pāpam evāśhrayed asmān hatvaitān ātatāyinaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: O Janardana, what happiness will we gain by killing the sons of Dhrtarastra? We will only incur sin by killing these wrongdoers.

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 37 script:
tasmān nārhā vayaṁ hantuṁ dhārtarāṣhṭrān sa-bāndhavān 
sva-janaṁ hi kathaṁ hatvā sukhinaḥ syāma mādhava

This is the meaning of the above verse: Therefore, it is not proper for us to kill the sons of Dhrtarastra, who are our own relatives. For, O Madhava, how can we be happy by killing our kinsmen?

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 38 script:
yady apy ete na paśhyanti lobhopahata-chetasaḥ
kula-kṣhaya-kṛitaṁ doṣhaṁ mitra-drohe cha pātakam

This is the meaning of the above verse: - O Janardana, although these people, whose hearts have become perverted by greed, do not see the evil arising from destroying the family and sinning in hostility towards friends, yet how can we, who clearly see the evil arising from destroying the family, remain unaware of the need to abstain from this sin?

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 39 script:
kathaṁ na jñeyam asmābhiḥ pāpād asmān nivartitum
kula-kṣhaya-kṛitaṁ doṣhaṁ prapaśhyadbhir janārdana

This is the meaning of the above verse: - O Janardana, although these people, whose hearts have become perverted by greed, do not see the evil arising from destroying the family and sinning in hostility towards friends, yet how can we, who clearly see the evil arising from destroying the family, remain unaware of the need to abstain from this sin?

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 40 script:
kula-kṣhaye praṇaśhyanti kula-dharmāḥ sanātanāḥ
dharme naṣhṭe kulaṁ kṛitsnam adharmo ’bhibhavaty uta

This is the meaning of the above verse: From the ruin of the family, the traditional rites and duties are totally destroyed. When rites and duties are destroyed, vice overwhelms the entire family.

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 41 script:
adharmābhibhavāt kṛiṣhṇa praduṣhyanti kula-striyaḥ
strīṣhu duṣhṭāsu vārṣhṇeya jāyate varṇa-saṅkaraḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: O Krishna, when vice predominates, the women of the family become corrupt. O descendant of the Vrsnis, when women become corrupted, it results in the intermingling of castes.

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 42 script:
saṅkaro narakāyaiva kula-ghnānāṁ kulasya cha
patanti pitaro hy eṣhāṁ lupta-piṇḍodaka-kriyāḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: And the intermingling in the family leads the ruiners of the family verily into hell. The forefathers of these fall down (into hell) due to being deprived of the offerings of rice-balls and water.

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 43 script:
doṣhair etaiḥ kula-ghnānāṁ varṇa-saṅkara-kārakaiḥ
utsādyante jāti-dharmāḥ kula-dharmāśh cha śhāśhvatāḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।1.43।।इन वर्णसंकर कारक दोषों से कुलघाती दोषों से सनातन कुलधर्म और जातिधर्म नष्ट हो जाते हैं।


 

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 44 script:
utsanna-kula-dharmāṇāṁ manuṣhyāṇāṁ janārdana
narake ‘niyataṁ vāso bhavatītyanuśhuśhruma

This is the meaning of the above verse: We have heard, O Janardana, that those men in whose families the religious practices have been destroyed are inevitably destined to dwell in hell for an unknown period.

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 45 script:
aho bata mahat pāpaṁ kartuṁ vyavasitā vayam
yad rājya-sukha-lobhena hantuṁ sva-janam udyatāḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Alas! We are involved in a great sin, for we are prepared to kill our kinsmen, out of greed for the pleasures of a kingdom.

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 46 script:
yadi mām apratīkāram aśhastraṁ śhastra-pāṇayaḥ
dhārtarāṣhṭrā raṇe hanyus tan me kṣhemataraṁ bhavet

This is the meaning of the above verse: If the well-armed sons of Dhrtarastra should slay me in battle, unresisting and unarmed, that would be better for me.

This is Chapter 1 Shloka 47 script:
sañjaya uvācha
evam uktvārjunaḥ saṅkhye rathopastha upāviśhat
visṛijya sa-śharaṁ chāpaṁ śhoka-saṁvigna-mānasaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Sanjaya said, Having thus spoken in the midst of the battlefield, Arjuna cast away his bow and arrow and, his mind overwhelmed with sorrow, sat down on the seat of the chariot.

