This is the script of the Moksha Sanyaas Yoga. It is the chapter number 18. It has 78 shlokas. The name means Yoga through the Perfection of Renunciation and Surrender.

The eighteenth chapter of the Bhagavad Gita is "Moksha Sanyas Yoga". Arjuna requests the Lord to explain the difference between the two types of renunciations - sanyaas(renunciation of actions) and tyaag(renunciation of desires). Krishna explains that a sanyaasi is one who abandons family and society in order to practise spiritual discipline whereas a tyaagi is one who performs their duties without attachment to the rewards of their actions and dedicating them to the God. Krishna recommends the second kind of renunciation - tyaag. Krishna then gives a detailed analysis of the effects of the three modes of material nature. He declares that the highest path of spirituality is pure, unconditional loving service unto the Supreme Divine Personality, Krishna. If we always remember Him, keep chanting His name and dedicate all our actions unto Him, take refuge in Him and make Him our Supreme goal, then by His grace, we will surely overcome all obstacles and difficulties and be freed from this cycle of birth and death.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 1 script:
arjuna uvācha
sannyāsasya mahā-bāho tattvam ichchhāmi veditum
tyāgasya cha hṛiṣhīkeśha pṛithak keśhi-niṣhūdana

This is the meaning of the above verse: Arjuna said, O Mighty-armed One! I desire to know, in detail, the distinctive nature of renunciation and relinquishment, O Hrsikesa! O Slayer of Kesin!

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 2 script:
śhrī-bhagavān uvācha
kāmyānāṁ karmaṇāṁ nyāsaṁ sannyāsaṁ kavayo viduḥ
sarva-karma-phala-tyāgaṁ prāhus tyāgaṁ vichakṣhaṇāḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: The Blessed Lord said, "The sages understand sannyasa to be the renunciation of action with desire; the wise declare the abandonment of the fruits of all actions to be tyaga."

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 3 script:
tyājyaṁ doṣha-vad ity eke karma prāhur manīṣhiṇaḥ
yajña-dāna-tapaḥ-karma na tyājyam iti chāpare

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।18.3।। कुछ मनीषी जन कहते हैं कि समस्त कर्म दोषयुक्त होने के कारण त्याज्य हैं; और अन्य जन कहते हैं कि यज्ञ, दान और तपरूप कर्म त्याज्य नहीं हैं।।
 

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 4 script:
niśhchayaṁ śhṛiṇu me tatra tyāge bharata-sattama
tyāgo hi puruṣha-vyāghra tri-vidhaḥ samprakīrtitaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।18.4।। हे भरतसत्तम ! उस त्याग के विषय में तुम मेरे निर्णय को सुनो। हे पुरुष श्रेष्ठ ! वह त्याग तीन प्रकार का कहा गया है।।
 

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 5 script:
yajña-dāna-tapaḥ-karma na tyājyaṁ kāryam eva tat
yajño dānaṁ tapaśh chaiva pāvanāni manīṣhiṇām

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।18.5।।यज्ञ, दान और तपरूप कर्मोंका त्याग नहीं करना चाहिये, प्रत्युत उनको तो करना ही चाहिये क्योंकि यज्ञ, दान और तप -- ये तीनों ही कर्म मनीषियोंको पवित्र करनेवाले हैं।

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 6 script:
etāny api tu karmāṇi saṅgaṁ tyaktvā phalāni cha
kartavyānīti me pārtha niśhchitaṁ matam uttamam

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।18.6।।हे पार्थ ! (पूर्वोक्त यज्ञ, दान और तप -- ) इन कर्मोंको तथा दूसरे भी कर्मोंको आसक्ति और फलोंका त्याग करके करना चाहिये -- यह मेरा निश्चित किया हुआ उत्तम मत है।

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 7 script:
niyatasya tu sannyāsaḥ karmaṇo nopapadyate
mohāt tasya parityāgas tāmasaḥ parikīrtitaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Verily, the renunciation of obligatory action is not proper; the abandonment of the same out of delusion is declared to be Tamasic.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 8 script:
duḥkham ity eva yat karma kāya-kleśha-bhayāt tyajet
sa kṛitvā rājasaṁ tyāgaṁ naiva tyāga-phalaṁ labhet

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।18.8।।जो कुछ कर्म है, वह दुःखरूप ही है -- ऐसा समझकर कोई शारीरिक क्लेशके भयसे उसका त्याग कर दे, तो वह राजस त्याग करके भी त्यागके फलको नहीं पाता।

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 9 script:
kāryam ity eva yat karma niyataṁ kriyate ‘rjuna
saṅgaṁ tyaktvā phalaṁ chaiva sa tyāgaḥ sāttviko mataḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।18.9।।हे अर्जुन ! 'केवल कर्तव्यमात्र करना है' -- ऐसा समझकर जो नियत कर्म आसक्ति और फलका त्याग करके किया जाता है, वही सात्त्विक त्याग माना गया है।

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 10 script:
na dveṣhṭy akuśhalaṁ karma kuśhale nānuṣhajjate
tyāgī sattva-samāviṣhṭo medhāvī chhinna-sanśhayaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।18.10।।जो अकुशल कर्मसे द्वेष नहीं करता और कुशल कर्ममें आसक्त नहीं होता, वह त्यागी, बुद्धिमान्, सन्देहरहित और अपने स्वरूपमें स्थित है।

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 11 script:
na hi deha-bhṛitā śhakyaṁ tyaktuṁ karmāṇy aśheṣhataḥ
yas tu karma-phala-tyāgī sa tyāgīty abhidhīyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।18.11।।कारण कि देहधारी मनुष्यके द्वारा सम्पूर्ण कर्मोंका त्याग करना सम्भव नहीं है। इसलिये जो कर्मफलका त्यागी है, वही त्यागी है -- ऐसा कहा जाता है।

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 12 script:
aniṣhṭam iṣhṭaṁ miśhraṁ cha tri-vidhaṁ karmaṇaḥ phalam
bhavaty atyāgināṁ pretya na tu sannyāsināṁ kvachit

This is the meaning of the above verse: The threefold fruit of action (evil, good, and mixed) accrues after death to those who do not abandon it, but never to those who do.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 13 script:
pañchaitāni mahā-bāho kāraṇāni nibodha me
sānkhye kṛitānte proktāni siddhaye sarva-karmaṇām

This is the meaning of the above verse: Learn from Me, O mighty-armed Arjuna, these five causes, as declared in the Sankhya system, for the accomplishment of all actions.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 14 script:
adhiṣhṭhānaṁ tathā kartā karaṇaṁ cha pṛithag-vidham
vividhāśh cha pṛithak cheṣhṭā daivaṁ chaivātra pañchamam

This is the meaning of the above verse: The seat of action, the agent, the various kinds of organs, the different and distinctive functions of vital air, and the fifth among these—Divinity—all these.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 15 script:
śharīra-vāṅ-manobhir yat karma prārabhate naraḥ
nyāyyaṁ vā viparītaṁ vā pañchaite tasya hetavaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: For whatever action a person undertakes with their body, speech, and mind, whether right or wrong, i.e., enjoined or forbidden by the Sastras, the following five are its causes:

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 16 script:
tatraivaṁ sati kartāram ātmānaṁ kevalaṁ tu yaḥ
paśhyaty akṛita-buddhitvān na sa paśhyati durmatiḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Therefore, he who, due to his uncultivated understanding, perceives only the self as the agent, he of wicked mind does not truly perceive.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 17 script:
yasya nāhankṛito bhāvo buddhir yasya na lipyate
hatvā ‘pi sa imāl lokān na hanti na nibadhyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: He who is free from the notion of 'I am the doer,' and whose understanding is not tainted, does not slay, even though he slays all these men, nor is he bound.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 18 script:
jñānaṁ jñeyaṁ parijñātā tri-vidhā karma-chodanā
karaṇaṁ karma karteti tri-vidhaḥ karma-saṅgrahaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Knowledge, the object of knowledge, and the knower—these are the threefold inducements to action. The comprehension of actions comes under three heads: the instruments, the object, and the subject.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 19 script:
jñānaṁ karma cha kartā cha tridhaiva guṇa-bhedataḥ
prochyate guṇa-saṅkhyāne yathāvach chhṛiṇu tāny api

This is the meaning of the above verse: Knowledge, action, and agent are declared in the science of the Gunas to be of three kinds, according to the difference in the Gunas. Listen to them also as they are.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 20 script:
sarva-bhūteṣhu yenaikaṁ bhāvam avyayam īkṣhate
avibhaktaṁ vibhakteṣhu taj jñānaṁ viddhi sāttvikam

This is the meaning of the above verse: Know that knowledge to be sattvika, by which one sees in all beings an immutable existence, undivided even in the divided.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 21 script:
pṛithaktvena tu yaj jñānaṁ nānā-bhāvān pṛithag-vidhān
vetti sarveṣhu bhūteṣhu taj jñānaṁ viddhi rājasam

This is the meaning of the above verse: But that knowledge which sees all beings, due to their individual nature, as distinct entities—know that knowledge to be Rajasic.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 22 script:
yat tu kṛitsna-vad ekasmin kārye saktam ahaitukam
atattvārtha-vad alpaṁ cha tat tāmasam udāhṛitam

This is the meaning of the above verse: But that knowledge is declared to be Tamasika which clings to one single act as if it were the whole, which is not based on reason, and which is false and insignificant.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 23 script:
niyataṁ saṅga-rahitam arāga-dveṣhataḥ kṛitam
aphala-prepsunā karma yat tat sāttvikam uchyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।18.23।। जो कर्म (शास्त्रविधि से) नियत और संगरहित है, तथा फल को न चाहने वाले पुरुष के द्वारा बिना किसी राग द्वेष के किया गया है, वह (कर्म) सात्त्विक कहा जाता है।।
 

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 24 script:
yat tu kāmepsunā karma sāhankāreṇa vā punaḥ
kriyate bahulāyāsaṁ tad rājasam udāhṛitam

This is the meaning of the above verse: But that action which is done by one longing for the fulfillment of desires or gain with egotism or with much effort is declared to be Rajasic (passionate).

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 25 script:
anubandhaṁ kṣhayaṁ hinsām anapekṣhya cha pauruṣham
mohād ārabhyate karma yat tat tāmasam uchyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: That act is said to be Tamasika which is undertaken through delusion, without regard to consequences, loss, injury, and one's own capacity.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 26 script:
mukta-saṅgo ‘nahaṁ-vādī dhṛity-utsāha-samanvitaḥ
siddhy-asiddhyor nirvikāraḥ kartā sāttvika uchyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: That agent is said to be Sattvika, who is free from attachment, who does not boast of himself, who is endowed with steadiness and zeal, and who is unaffected by success and failure.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 27 script:
rāgī karma-phala-prepsur lubdho hinsātmako ‘śhuchiḥ
harṣha-śhokānvitaḥ kartā rājasaḥ parikīrtitaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: That doer is called Rajasika who is passionate, who seeks the fruits of his actions, who is greedy, harmful, and impure, and who is swayed by delight and grief.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 28 script:
ayuktaḥ prākṛitaḥ stabdhaḥ śhaṭho naiṣhkṛitiko ‘lasaḥ
viṣhādī dīrgha-sūtrī cha kartā tāmasa uchyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: That doer is said to be Tamasika who is unqualified, unrefined, obstinate, depraved, dishonest, indolent, despondent, and lethargic.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 29 script:
buddher bhedaṁ dhṛiteśh chaiva guṇatas tri-vidhaṁ śhṛiṇu
prochyamānam aśheṣheṇa pṛithaktvena dhanañjaya

This is the meaning of the above verse: O Dhananjaya, listen to the classification of the intellect and fortitude, which is threefold according to the gunas, while it is being stated in detail and separately.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 30 script:
pravṛittiṁ cha nivṛittiṁ cha kāryākārye bhayābhaye
bandhaṁ mokṣhaṁ cha yā vetti buddhiḥ sā pārtha sāttvikī

This is the meaning of the above verse: O Partha, that intellect is born of sattva which understands action and withdrawal, duty and what is not duty, the sources of fear and fearlessness, as well as bondage and freedom.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 31 script:
yayā dharmam adharmaṁ cha kāryaṁ chākāryam eva cha
ayathāvat prajānāti buddhiḥ sā pārtha rājasī

This is the meaning of the above verse: The Buddhi that gives an erroneous knowledge of Dharma and Adharma (its opposite) and also of what should be done and what should not be done, O Arjuna, is Rajasic.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 32 script:
adharmaṁ dharmam iti yā manyate tamasāvṛitā
sarvārthān viparītānśh cha buddhiḥ sā pārtha tāmasī

This is the meaning of the above verse: That Buddhi, O Arjuna, which, enveloped in darkness, regards Adharma as Dharma and reverses every value, is Tamasika.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 33 script:
dhṛityā yayā dhārayate manaḥ-prāṇendriya-kriyāḥ
yogenāvyabhichāriṇyā dhṛitiḥ sā pārtha sāttvikī

This is the meaning of the above verse: That fortitude, by which one maintains the unwavering activities of the mind and vital force, and these sense-organs, through yoga—that fortitude is of the nature of sattva.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 34 script:
yayā tu dharma-kāmārthān dhṛityā dhārayate ‘rjuna
prasaṅgena phalākāṅkṣhī dhṛitiḥ sā pārtha rājasī

This is the meaning of the above verse: The conviction that always holds fast to rituals, self-interest, and wealth for the sake of what they may bring forth comes from passion.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 35 script:
yayā svapnaṁ bhayaṁ śhokaṁ viṣhādaṁ madam eva cha
na vimuñchati durmedhā dhṛitiḥ sā pārtha tāmasī

This is the meaning of the above verse: That firmness, O Arjuna, by which a stupid man does not abandon sleep, fear, grief, despair, and conceit, is Tamasic.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 36 script:
sukhaṁ tv idānīṁ tri-vidhaṁ śhṛiṇu me bharatarṣhabha
abhyāsād ramate yatra duḥkhāntaṁ cha nigachchhati
 yat tad agre viṣham iva pariṇāme ‘mṛitopamam
tat sukhaṁ sāttvikaṁ proktam ātma-buddhi-prasāda-jam

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।18.36।। हे भरतश्रेष्ठ ! अब तुम त्रिविध सुख को मुझसे सुनो, जिसमें (साधक पुरुष) अभ्यास से रमता है और दु:खों के अन्त को प्राप्त होता है (जहाँ उसके दु:खों का अन्त हो जाता है।)।।
 

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 37 script:
yat  tad agre    viṣam   iva pariṇāme    'mṛtopamam  tat sukhaṁ  sāttvikaṁ   proktam ātma-buddhi-prasāda-jam
This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।18.37।। जो सुख प्रथम (प्रारम्भ में) विष के समान (भासता) है, परन्तु परिणाम में अमृत के समान है, वह आत्मबुद्धि के प्रसाद से उत्पन्न सुख सात्त्विक कहा गया है।।
 

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 38 script:
viṣhayendriya-sanyogād yat tad agre ’mṛitopamam
pariṇāme viṣham iva tat sukhaṁ rājasaṁ smṛitam

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।18.38।। जो सुख विषयों और इन्द्रियों के संयोग से उत्पन्न होता है, वह प्रथम तो अमृत के समान, परन्तु परिणाम में विष तुल्य होता है, वह सुख राजस कहा गया है।।
 

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 39 script:
yad agre chānubandhe cha sukhaṁ mohanam ātmanaḥ
nidrālasya-pramādotthaṁ tat tāmasam udāhṛitam

This is the meaning of the above verse: That pleasure which, at the beginning and end, deludes the self, through sleep, sloth, and error, is declared to be tamasic.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 40 script:
na tad asti pṛithivyāṁ vā divi deveṣhu vā punaḥ
sattvaṁ prakṛiti-jair muktaṁ yad ebhiḥ syāt tribhir guṇaiḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: There is no entity in the world, nor among the gods in heaven, that can be free from these three gunas born of Nature.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 41 script:
brāhmaṇa-kṣhatriya-viśhāṁ śhūdrāṇāṁ cha parantapa
karmāṇi pravibhaktāni svabhāva-prabhavair guṇaiḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: The duties of the Brahmanas, Ksatriyas, Vaisyas, and Sudras are clearly divided, O Arjuna, according to their Gunas, born of their nature.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 42 script:
śhamo damas tapaḥ śhauchaṁ kṣhāntir ārjavam eva cha
jñānaṁ vijñānam āstikyaṁ brahma-karma svabhāva-jam

This is the meaning of the above verse: The control of the senses and mind, austerity, purity, forbearance, uprightness, knowledge, special knowledge, and faith—all these constitute the duty of a Brahmana, born of his inherent nature.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 43 script:
śhauryaṁ tejo dhṛitir dākṣhyaṁ yuddhe chāpy apalāyanam
dānam īśhvara-bhāvaśh cha kṣhātraṁ karma svabhāva-jam

This is the meaning of the above verse: Valor, invincibility, steadiness, dexterity, and not fleeing in battle, generosity, and regality are the duties of a Kshatriya, born of his inherent nature.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 44 script:
kṛiṣhi-gau-rakṣhya-vāṇijyaṁ vaiśhya-karma svabhāva-jam
paricharyātmakaṁ karma śhūdrasyāpi svabhāva-jam

This is the meaning of the above verse: Agriculture, cattle-breeding, and trade are the duties of the Vaisya, born of their nature. And the duty of a Sudra is one of service, born of their nature.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 45 script:
sve sve karmaṇy abhirataḥ sansiddhiṁ labhate naraḥ
sva-karma-nirataḥ siddhiṁ yathā vindati tach chhṛiṇu

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।18.45।। अपने-अपने स्वाभाविक कर्म में अभिरत मनुष्य संसिद्धि को प्राप्त कर लेता है। स्वकर्म में रत मनुष्य किस प्रकार सिद्धि प्राप्त करता है, उसे तुम सुनो।।
 

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 46 script:
yataḥ pravṛittir bhūtānāṁ yena sarvam idaṁ tatam
sva-karmaṇā tam abhyarchya siddhiṁ vindati mānavaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: He from whom all the beings have evolved and by whom all this is pervaded, worshipping Him with his own duty, one attains perfection.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 47 script:
śhreyān swa-dharmo viguṇaḥ para-dharmāt sv-anuṣhṭhitāt
svabhāva-niyataṁ karma kurvan nāpnoti kilbiṣham

This is the meaning of the above verse: Better is one's own duty, though ill done, than the duty of another, though well-performed. When one does the duty ordained by their own nature, they incur no stain.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 48 script:
saha-jaṁ karma kaunteya sa-doṣham api na tyajet
sarvārambhā hi doṣheṇa dhūmenāgnir ivāvṛitāḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: One should not relinquish one's work, O Arjuna, though it may be imperfect; for, all endeavors are enveloped by imperfections as fire is by smoke.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 49 script:
asakta-buddhiḥ sarvatra jitātmā vigata-spṛihaḥ
naiṣhkarmya-siddhiṁ paramāṁ sannyāsenādhigachchhati

This is the meaning of the above verse: He whose understanding is unattached on all sides, whose self is controlled, who is free from desires—he attains the supreme perfection transcending all activity through renunciation.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 50 script:
siddhiṁ prāpto yathā brahma tathāpnoti nibodha me
samāsenaiva kaunteya niṣhṭhā jñānasya yā parā

This is the meaning of the above verse: Learn from me, O Arjuna, in brief how one who has attained perfection attains the Brahman—the supreme consummation of knowledge.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 51 script:
buddhyā viśhuddhayā yukto dhṛityātmānaṁ niyamya cha
śhabdādīn viṣhayāns tyaktvā rāga-dveṣhau vyudasya cha

This is the meaning of the above verse: Endowed with a pure intellect and controlling oneself with fortitude, one should reject the objects beginning from sound [sound, touch, form, color, taste, and smell - Tr.] and eliminate attachment and hatred.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 52 script:
vivikta-sevī laghv-āśhī yata-vāk-kāya-mānasaḥ
dhyāna-yoga-paro nityaṁ vairāgyaṁ samupāśhritaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: One who resorts to solitude, eats sparingly, has control over their speech, body, and mind, for whom meditation and concentration are ever the highest duty, and who is possessed of dispassion;

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 53 script:
ahankāraṁ balaṁ darpaṁ kāmaṁ krodhaṁ parigraham
vimuchya nirmamaḥ śhānto brahma-bhūyāya kalpate

This is the meaning of the above verse: Having discarded egotism, force, pride, desire, anger, and superfluous possessions, and being free from the idea of possession and serene, that person is fit for becoming Brahman.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 54 script:
brahma-bhūtaḥ prasannātmā na śhochati na kāṅkṣhati
samaḥ sarveṣhu bhūteṣhu mad-bhaktiṁ labhate parām

This is the meaning of the above verse: One who has become Brahman and has attained the blissful Self does not grieve nor desire. Becoming the same towards all beings, he attains supreme devotion to Me.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 55 script:
bhaktyā mām abhijānāti yāvān yaśh chāsmi tattvataḥ
tato māṁ tattvato jñātvā viśhate tad-anantaram

This is the meaning of the above verse: Through devotion, he knows Me in reality, as to what and who I am. Then, having known Me truly, he enters into Me immediately afterward.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 56 script:
sarva-karmāṇy api sadā kurvāṇo mad-vyapāśhrayaḥ
mat-prasādād avāpnoti śhāśhvataṁ padam avyayam

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।18.56।। जो पुरुष मदाश्रित होकर सदैव समस्त कर्मों को करता है, वह मेरे प्रसाद (अनुग्रह) से शाश्वत, अव्यय पद को प्राप्त कर लेता है।।
 

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 57 script:
chetasā sarva-karmāṇi mayi sannyasya mat-paraḥ
buddhi-yogam upāśhritya mach-chittaḥ satataṁ bhava

This is the meaning of the above verse: Mentally renouncing all actions in Me, having Me as the highest goal, and resorting to the yoga of discrimination, do thou ever fix thy mind on Me.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 58 script:
mach-chittaḥ sarva-durgāṇi mat-prasādāt tariṣhyasi
atha chet tvam ahankārān na śhroṣhyasi vinaṅkṣhyasi

This is the meaning of the above verse: Focusing your thoughts on Me, you shall, by My grace, cross over all difficulties. If, however, out of self-conceit, you do not heed Me, you will perish.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 59 script:
yad ahankāram āśhritya na yotsya iti manyase
mithyaiṣha vyavasāyas te prakṛitis tvāṁ niyokṣhyati

This is the meaning of the above verse: If, in your self-conceit, you think, 'I will not fight,' your resolve is futile. Nature will compel you.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 60 script:
swbhāva-jena kaunteya nibaddhaḥ svena karmaṇā
kartuṁ nechchhasi yan mohāt kariṣhyasy avaśho ’pi tat

This is the meaning of the above verse: O Arjuna, bound by your own duty born out of your own inner disposition, and having no control over your own will, you will be compelled to do that very thing which you now do not desire to do through delusion.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 61 script:
īśhvaraḥ sarva-bhūtānāṁ hṛid-deśhe ‘rjuna tiṣhṭhati
bhrāmayan sarva-bhūtāni yantrārūḍhāni māyayā

This is the meaning of the above verse: The Lord, O Arjuna, abides in the heart of every being, spinning them round and round, as if mounted on a wheel, by His power.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 62 script:
tam eva śharaṇaṁ gachchha sarva-bhāvena bhārata
tat-prasādāt parāṁ śhāntiṁ sthānaṁ prāpsyasi śhāśhvatam

This is the meaning of the above verse: Take refuge in Him alone with your whole being, O scion of the Bharata dynasty. Through His grace, you will attain supreme peace and the eternal abode.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 63 script:
iti te jñānam ākhyātaṁ guhyād guhyataraṁ mayā
vimṛiśhyaitad aśheṣheṇa yathechchhasi tathā kuru

This is the meaning of the above verse: To you I have imparted this knowledge, which is more secret than any secret. Ponder over this as a whole and do as you like.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 64 script:
sarva-guhyatamaṁ bhūyaḥ śhṛiṇu me paramaṁ vachaḥ
iṣhṭo ‘si me dṛiḍham iti tato vakṣhyāmi te hitam

This is the meaning of the above verse: Listen again to My highest utterance, which is the most profound of all. Since you are ever dear to Me, I shall speak what is beneficial to you.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 65 script:
man-manā bhava mad-bhakto mad-yājī māṁ namaskuru
mām evaiṣhyasi satyaṁ te pratijāne priyo ‘si me

This is the meaning of the above verse: Fix your mind on Me, be devoted to Me, offer sacrifices to Me, and bow down to Me. Thus, you will come to Me alone. I promise you this truth, for you are dear to Me.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 66 script:
sarva-dharmān parityajya mām ekaṁ śharaṇaṁ vraja
ahaṁ tvāṁ sarva-pāpebhyo mokṣhayiṣhyāmi mā śhuchaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Abandon all forms of rites and duties, and take refuge in Me alone. I will free you from all sins; do not grieve.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 67 script:
idaṁ te nātapaskyāya nābhaktāya kadāchana
na chāśhuśhruṣhave vāchyaṁ na cha māṁ yo ‘bhyasūtayi

This is the meaning of the above verse: This (that I have taught) should never be taught to one who is devoid of austerities, one who is not a devotee, one who does not render service, or one who cavils at Me.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 68 script:
ya idaṁ paramaṁ guhyaṁ mad-bhakteṣhv abhidhāsyati
bhaktiṁ mayi parāṁ kṛitvā mām evaiṣhyaty asanśhayaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: He who, with supreme devotion to Me, teaches this supreme secret to My devotees, shall undoubtedly come to Me.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 69 script:
na cha tasmān manuṣhyeṣhu kaśhchin me priya-kṛittamaḥ
bhavitā na cha me tasmād anyaḥ priyataro bhuvi

This is the meaning of the above verse: And compared to him, no other human is better at accomplishing what is dear to Me. Furthermore, there will be no one else in the world dearer to Me than him.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 70 script:
adhyeṣhyate cha ya imaṁ dharmyaṁ saṁvādam āvayoḥ
jñāna-yajñena tenāham iṣhṭaḥ syām iti me matiḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: And he who will study our dialogue, which is consistent with Dharma, by him I shall be worshipped through the sacrifice of knowledge; that is My view.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 71 script:
śhraddhāvān anasūyaśh cha śhṛiṇuyād api yo naraḥ
so ‘pi muktaḥ śhubhāl lokān prāpnuyāt puṇya-karmaṇām

This is the meaning of the above verse: And the man who listens to it with faith and without cavil, he too shall be released and shall reach the auspicious realms of those who have performed virtuous deeds.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 72 script:
kachchid etach chhrutaṁ pārtha tvayaikāgreṇa chetasā
kachchid ajñāna-sammohaḥ pranaṣhṭas te dhanañjaya

This is the meaning of the above verse: Have you heard this, O Arjuna, with a single-minded focus? Has your delusion, caused by ignorance, been dispelled?

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 73 script:
arjuna uvācha
naṣhṭo mohaḥ smṛitir labdhā tvat-prasādān mayāchyuta
sthito ‘smi gata-sandehaḥ kariṣhye vachanaṁ tava

This is the meaning of the above verse: Arjuna said, "O Acyuta, my delusion has been destroyed and my memory has been regained through Your grace. I stand with my doubt removed; I shall follow Your instructions."

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 74 script:
sañjaya uvācha
ity ahaṁ vāsudevasya pārthasya cha mahātmanaḥ
saṁvādam imam aśhrauṣham adbhutaṁ roma-harṣhaṇam

This is the meaning of the above verse: Sanjaya said, "I thus heard this conversation between Vasudeva and the great-souled Partha, which is unique and makes one's hair stand on end."

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 75 script:
vyāsa-prasādāch chhrutavān etad guhyam ahaṁ param
yogaṁ yogeśhvarāt kṛiṣhṇāt sākṣhāt kathayataḥ svayam

This is the meaning of the above verse: Through the favor of Vyasa, I heard this secret concerning the supreme Yoga from Krishna, the Lord of Yogas, while He Himself was speaking!

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 76 script:
rājan sansmṛitya sansmṛitya saṁvādam imam adbhutam
keśhavārjunayoḥ puṇyaṁ hṛiṣhyāmi cha muhur muhuḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: And, O King, while repeatedly remembering this unique, sacred dialogue between Kesava and Arjuna, I rejoice every moment.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 77 script:
tach cha sansmṛitya saṁsmṛitya rūpam aty-adbhutaṁ hareḥ
vismayo ye mahān rājan hṛiṣhyāmi cha punaḥ punaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: O King, repeatedly recollecting that greatly extraordinary form of Hari, I am struck with wonder and rejoice again and again.

This is Chapter 18 Shloka 78 script:
yatra yogeśhvaraḥ kṛiṣhṇo yatra pārtho dhanur-dharaḥ
tatra śhrīr vijayo bhūtir dhruvā nītir matir mama

This is the meaning of the above verse: Wherever Lord Shri Krishna, the Prince of Wisdom, and Arjuna, the Great Archer, are, I am certain that good fortune, victory, happiness, and righteousness will follow.

