This is the script of the Gunatraya Vibhaga Yoga. It is the chapter number 14. It has 27 shlokas. The name means Yoga through Understanding the Three Modes of Material Nature.

The fourteenth chapter of the Bhagavad Gita is "Gunatraya Vibhaga Yoga". In this chapter, Krishna reveals the three gunas (modes) of the material nature - goodness, passion and ignorance which everything in the material existence is influenced by. He further explains the essential characteristics of each of these modes, their cause and how they influence a living entity affected by them. He then reveals the various characteristics of the persons who have gone beyond these gunas. The chapter ends with Krishna reminding us of the power of pure devotion to God and how attachment to God can help us transcend these gunas.

This is Chapter 14 Shloka 1 script:
śhrī-bhagavān uvācha
paraṁ bhūyaḥ pravakṣhyāmi jñānānāṁ jñānam uttamam
yaj jñātvā munayaḥ sarve parāṁ siddhim ito gatāḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।14.1।। श्री भगवान् ने कहा -- समस्त ज्ञानों में उत्तम परम ज्ञान को मैं पुन: कहूंगा, जिसको जानकर सभी मुनिजन इस (लोक) से जाकर (इस जीवनोपरान्त) परम सिद्धि को प्राप्त हुए हैं।।
 

This is Chapter 14 Shloka 2 script:
idaṁ jñānam upāśhritya mama sādharmyam āgatāḥ
sarge ’pi nopajāyante pralaye na vyathanti cha

This is the meaning of the above verse: Those who, having taken refuge in this knowledge, have attained unity with Me, are neither born at the time of creation nor disturbed at the time of dissolution.

This is Chapter 14 Shloka 3 script:
mama yonir mahad brahma tasmin garbhaṁ dadhāmy aham
sambhavaḥ sarva-bhūtānāṁ tato bhavati bhārata

This is the meaning of the above verse: My womb is the great Brahman (i.e. Prakṛti). In it, I lay the germ. From that, O Arjuna, comes the birth of all beings.

This is Chapter 14 Shloka 4 script:
sarva-yoniṣhu kaunteya mūrtayaḥ sambhavanti yāḥ
tāsāṁ brahma mahad yonir ahaṁ bīja-pradaḥ pitā

This is the meaning of the above verse: Whatever forms are produced in any womb, O Arjuna, the Prakṛti is their great womb, and I am the sowing father.

This is Chapter 14 Shloka 5 script:
sattvaṁ rajas tama iti guṇāḥ prakṛiti-sambhavāḥ
nibadhnanti mahā-bāho dehe dehinam avyayam

This is the meaning of the above verse: The Gunas of Sattva, Rajas, and Tamas arise from Prakrti and bind the immutable Self in the body, O Arjuna.

This is Chapter 14 Shloka 6 script:
tatra sattvaṁ nirmalatvāt prakāśhakam anāmayam
sukha-saṅgena badhnāti jñāna-saṅgena chānagha

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।14.6।। हे निष्पाप अर्जुन ! इन (तीनों) में, सत्त्वगुण निर्मल होने से प्रकाशक और अनामय (निरुपद्रव, निर्विकार या निरोग) है; (वह जीव को) सुख की आसक्ति से और ज्ञान की आसक्ति से बांध देता है।।
 

This is Chapter 14 Shloka 7 script:
rajo rāgātmakaṁ viddhi tṛiṣhṇā-saṅga-samudbhavam
tan nibadhnāti kaunteya karma-saṅgena dehinam

This is the meaning of the above verse: Know rajas to be of the nature of passion, born of hankering and attachment. O son of Kunti, it binds the embodied one through attachment to action.

This is Chapter 14 Shloka 8 script:
tamas tv ajñāna-jaṁ viddhi mohanaṁ sarva-dehinām
pramādālasya-nidrābhis tan nibadhnāti bhārata

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।14.8।। और हे भारत ! तमोगुण को अज्ञान से उत्पन्न जानो; जो समस्त देहधारियों (जीवों) को मोहित करने वाला है। वह प्रमाद, आलस्य और निद्रा के द्वारा जीव को बांधता है।।
 

This is Chapter 14 Shloka 9 script:
sattvaṁ sukhe sañjayati rajaḥ karmaṇi bhārata
jñānam āvṛitya tu tamaḥ pramāde sañjayaty uta

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।14.9।। हे भारत ! सत्त्वगुण सुख में आसक्त कर देता है और रजोगुण कर्म में, किन्तु तमोगुण ज्ञान को आवृत्त करके जीव को प्रमाद से युक्त कर देता है।।
 

This is Chapter 14 Shloka 10 script:
rajas tamaśh chābhibhūya sattvaṁ bhavati bhārata
rajaḥ sattvaṁ tamaśh chaiva tamaḥ sattvaṁ rajas tathā

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।14.10।। हे भारत ! कभी रज और तम को अभिभूत (दबा) करके सत्त्वगुण की वृद्धि होती है, कभी रज और सत्त्व को दबाकर तमोगुण की वृद्धि होती है, तो कभी तम और सत्त्व को अभिभूत कर रजोगुण की वृद्धि होती है।।
 

This is Chapter 14 Shloka 11 script:
sarva-dvāreṣhu dehe ’smin prakāśha upajāyate
jñānaṁ yadā tadā vidyād vivṛiddhaṁ sattvam ity uta

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।14.11।। जब इस देह के द्वारों अर्थात् समस्त इन्द्रियों में ज्ञानरूप प्रकाश उत्पन्न होता है, तब सत्त्वगुण को प्रवृद्ध हुआ जानो।।
 

This is Chapter 14 Shloka 12 script:
lobhaḥ pravṛittir ārambhaḥ karmaṇām aśhamaḥ spṛihā
rajasy etāni jāyante vivṛiddhe bharatarṣhabha


This is the meaning of the above verse: Greed, exertion, undertaking of actions, restlessness, and craving—these are born when Rajas predominates, O chief of the Bharatas!

This is Chapter 14 Shloka 13 script:
aprakāśho ’pravṛittiśh cha pramādo moha eva cha
tamasy etāni jāyante vivṛiddhe kuru-nandana


This is the meaning of the above verse: O descendant of the Kuru dynasty, when tamas predominates, these come into being without exception: non-discrimination, inactivity, inadvertence, and delusion.

This is Chapter 14 Shloka 14 script:
yadā sattve pravṛiddhe tu pralayaṁ yāti deha-bhṛit
tadottama-vidāṁ lokān amalān pratipadyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: If the embodied self dissolves when Sattva prevails, then it proceeds to the pure worlds of those who know the highest.

This is Chapter 14 Shloka 15 script:
rajasi pralayaṁ gatvā karma-saṅgiṣhu jāyate
tathā pralīnas tamasi mūḍha-yoniṣhu jāyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: (a) When Rajas is prevalent, one meets with dissolution and is born among those attached to work.

(b) Similarly, when Tamas prevails, one who has met with dissolution is born in the womb of beings lacking intelligence.

This is Chapter 14 Shloka 16 script:
karmaṇaḥ sukṛitasyāhuḥ sāttvikaṁ nirmalaṁ phalam
rajasas tu phalaṁ duḥkham ajñānaṁ tamasaḥ phalam


This is the meaning of the above verse: It is said that the fruit of a good deed is pure and of the nature of Sattva; the fruit of Rajas is pain; and the fruit of Tamas is ignorance.

This is Chapter 14 Shloka 17 script:
sattvāt sañjāyate jñānaṁ rajaso lobha eva cha
pramāda-mohau tamaso bhavato ’jñānam eva cha

This is the meaning of the above verse: From Sattva arises knowledge, from Rajas arises greed, from Tamas arises negligence and delusion, and from it arises ignorance.

This is Chapter 14 Shloka 18 script:
ūrdhvaṁ gachchhanti sattva-sthā madhye tiṣhṭhanti rājasāḥ
jaghanya-guṇa-vṛitti-sthā adho gachchhanti tāmasāḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Those seated in Sattva ascend; those of Rajasic nature dwell in the middle; and those of Tamasic nature, abiding in the function of the lowest Guna, descend.

This is Chapter 14 Shloka 19 script:
nānyaṁ guṇebhyaḥ kartāraṁ yadā draṣhṭānupaśhyati
guṇebhyaśh cha paraṁ vetti mad-bhāvaṁ so ’dhigachchhati

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।14.19।।जब विवेकी (विचारकुशल) मनुष्य तीनों गुणोंके सिवाय अन्य किसीको कर्ता नहीं देखता और अपनेको गुणोंसे पर अनुभव करता है, तब वह मेरे स्वरूपको प्राप्त हो जाता है।

This is Chapter 14 Shloka 20 script:
guṇān etān atītya trīn dehī deha-samudbhavān
janma-mṛityu-jarā-duḥkhair vimukto ’mṛitam aśhnute

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।14.20।।देहधारी (विवेकी मनुष्य) देहको उत्पन्न करनेवाले इन तीनों गुणोंका अतिक्रमण करके जन्म, मृत्यु और वृद्धावस्थारूप दुःखोंसे रहित हुआ अमरताका अनुभव करता है।

This is Chapter 14 Shloka 21 script:
arjuna uvācha
kair liṅgais trīn guṇān etān atīto bhavati prabho
kim āchāraḥ kathaṁ chaitāns trīn guṇān ativartate

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।14.21।।अर्जुन बोले -- हे प्रभो ! इन तीनों गुणोंसे अतीत हुआ मनुष्य किन लक्षणोंसे युक्त होता है? उसके आचरण कैसे होते हैं? और इन तीनों गुणोंका अतिक्रमण कैसे किया जा सकता है?

This is Chapter 14 Shloka 22 script:
śhrī-bhagavān uvācha
prakāśhaṁ cha pravṛittiṁ cha moham eva cha pāṇḍava
na dveṣhṭi sampravṛittāni na nivṛittāni kāṅkṣhati


This is the meaning of the above verse: The Lord said, "He does not hate illumination, nor activity, nor even delusion, O Arjuna, while these prevail, nor does He long for them when they cease."

This is Chapter 14 Shloka 23 script:
udāsīna-vad āsīno guṇair yo na vichālyate
guṇā vartanta ity evaṁ yo ’vatiṣhṭhati neṅgate

This is the meaning of the above verse: He who, seated like one unconcerned, is not moved by the dualities, and who, knowing that the dualities are active, is self-centered and does not move.

This is Chapter 14 Shloka 24 script:
sama-duḥkha-sukhaḥ sva-sthaḥ sama-loṣhṭāśhma-kāñchanaḥ
tulya-priyāpriyo dhīras tulya-nindātma-sanstutiḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Who is the same in pleasure and pain, who dwells in the Self, to whom a clod of earth, a stone, and gold are all alike, who is the same to the dear and the unfriendly, who is firm, and to whom censure and praise are one and the same.

This is Chapter 14 Shloka 25 script:
mānāpamānayos tulyas tulyo mitrāri-pakṣhayoḥ
sarvārambha-parityāgī guṇātītaḥ sa uchyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।14.25।। जो मान और अपमान में सम है; शत्रु और मित्र के पक्ष में भी सम है, ऐसा सर्वारम्भ परित्यागी पुरुष गुणातीत कहा जाता है।।
 

This is Chapter 14 Shloka 26 script:
māṁ cha yo ’vyabhichāreṇa bhakti-yogena sevate
sa guṇān samatītyaitān brahma-bhūyāya kalpate


This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।14.26।। जो पुरुष अव्यभिचारी भक्तियोग के द्वारा मेरी सेवा अर्थात् उपासना करता है, वह इन तीनों गुणों के अतीत होकर ब्रह्म बनने के लिये योग्य हो जाता है।।
 

This is Chapter 14 Shloka 27 script:
brahmaṇo hi pratiṣhṭhāham amṛitasyāvyayasya cha
śhāśhvatasya cha dharmasya sukhasyaikāntikasya cha

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।14.27।। क्योंकि मैं अमृत, अव्यय, ब्रह्म, शाश्वत धर्म और ऐकान्तिक अर्थात् पारमार्थिक सुख की प्रतिष्ठा हूँ।।

