This is the script of the Daivasura Sampad Vibhaga Yoga. It is the chapter number 16. It has 24 shlokas. The name means Yoga through Discerning the Divine and Demoniac Natures.

The sixteenth chapter of the Bhagavad Gita is "Daivasura Sampad Vibhaga Yoga". In this chapter, Krishna describes explicitly the two kinds of natures among human beings - divine and demoniac. Those who possess demonaic qualities associate themselves with the modes of passion and ignorance do not follow the regulations of the scriptures and embrace materialistic views. These people attain lower births and further material bondage. But people who possess divine qualities, follow the instructions of the scriptures, associate themselves with the mode of goodness and purify the mind through spiritual practices. This leads to the enhancement of divine qualities and they eventually attain spiritual realization.

This is Chapter 16 Shloka 1 script:
śhrī-bhagavān uvācha
abhayaṁ sattva-sanśhuddhir jñāna-yoga-vyavasthitiḥ
dānaṁ damaśh cha yajñaśh cha svādhyāyas tapa ārjavam

This is the meaning of the above verse: The Lord said, "Fearlessness, purity of mind, devotion to meditation on the knowledge of the self, alms-giving, self-control, worship, study of the Vedas, austerity, and uprightness—

This is Chapter 16 Shloka 2 script:
ahinsā satyam akrodhas tyāgaḥ śhāntir apaiśhunam
dayā bhūteṣhv aloluptvaṁ mārdavaṁ hrīr achāpalam

This is the meaning of the above verse: Non-injury, truth, freedom from anger, renunciation, tranquility, non-slandering of others, compassion for all beings, freedom from desire, gentleness, a sense of shame, and freedom from fickleness;

This is Chapter 16 Shloka 3 script:
tejaḥ kṣhamā dhṛitiḥ śhaucham adroho nāti-mānitā
bhavanti sampadaṁ daivīm abhijātasya bhārata

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।16.3।। हे भारत ! तेज, क्षमा, धैर्य, शौच (शुद्धि), अद्रोह और अतिमान (गर्व) का अभाव ये सब दैवी संपदा को प्राप्त पुरुष के लक्षण हैं।।
 

This is Chapter 16 Shloka 4 script:
dambho darpo ’bhimānaśh cha krodhaḥ pāruṣhyam eva cha
ajñānaṁ chābhijātasya pārtha sampadam āsurīm

This is the meaning of the above verse: O son of Prtha, the attributes of one destined to have the demoniacal nature are religious ostentation, pride, haughtiness, self-conceit, anger, rudeness, and ignorance.

This is Chapter 16 Shloka 5 script:
daivī sampad vimokṣhāya nibandhāyāsurī matā
mā śhuchaḥ sampadaṁ daivīm abhijāto ’si pāṇḍava

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।16.5।। हे पाण्डव ! दैवी सम्पदा मोक्ष के लिए और आसुरी सम्पदा बन्धन के लिए मानी गयी है, तुम शोक मत करो, क्योंकि तुम दैवी सम्पदा को प्राप्त हुए हो।।
 

This is Chapter 16 Shloka 6 script:
dvau bhūta-sargau loke ’smin daiva āsura eva cha
daivo vistaraśhaḥ prokta āsuraṁ pārtha me śhṛiṇu

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।16.6।। हे पार्थ ! इस लोक में दो प्रकार की भूतिसृष्टि है, दैवी और आसुरी। उनमें देवों का स्वभाव (दैवी सम्पदा) विस्तारपूर्वक कहा गया है; अब असुरों के स्वभाव को विस्तरश: मुझसे सुनो।।
 

This is Chapter 16 Shloka 7 script:
pravṛittiṁ cha nivṛittiṁ cha janā na vidur āsurāḥ
na śhauchaṁ nāpi chāchāro na satyaṁ teṣhu vidyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।16.7।। आसुरी स्वभाव के लोग न प्रवृत्ति को; जानते हैं और न निवृत्ति को उनमें न शुद्धि होती है, न सदाचार और न सत्य ही होता है।।
 

This is Chapter 16 Shloka 8 script:
asatyam apratiṣhṭhaṁ te jagad āhur anīśhvaram
aparaspara-sambhūtaṁ kim anyat kāma-haitukam

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।16.8।। वे कहते हैं कि यह जगत् आश्रयरहित, असत्य और ईश्वर रहित है, यह (स्त्रीपुरुष के) परस्पर कामुक संबंध से ही उत्पन्न हुआ है, और (इसका कारण) क्या हो सकता है? 
 

This is Chapter 16 Shloka 9 script:
etāṁ dṛiṣhṭim avaṣhṭabhya naṣhṭātmāno ’lpa-buddhayaḥ
prabhavanty ugra-karmāṇaḥ kṣhayāya jagato ’hitāḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Thinking thus, these degraded souls, these enemies of mankind—whose intelligence is negligible and whose deeds are monstrous—come into the world only to destroy.

This is Chapter 16 Shloka 10 script:
kāmam āśhritya duṣhpūraṁ dambha-māna-madānvitāḥ
mohād gṛihītvāsad-grāhān pravartante ’śhuchi-vratāḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Filled with insatiable desires, full of hypocrisy, pride, and arrogance, holding evil ideas due to delusion, they work with impure intentions.

This is Chapter 16 Shloka 11 script:
chintām aparimeyāṁ cha pralayāntām upāśhritāḥ
kāmopabhoga-paramā etāvad iti niśhchitāḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।16.11।। मरणपर्यन्त रहने वाली अपरिमित चिन्ताओं से ग्रस्त और विषयोपभोग को ही परम लक्ष्य मानने वाले ये आसुरी लोग इस निश्चित मत के होते हैं कि "इतना ही (सत्य, आनन्द) है"।।
 

This is Chapter 16 Shloka 12 script:
āśhā-pāśha-śhatair baddhāḥ kāma-krodha-parāyaṇāḥ
īhante kāma-bhogārtham anyāyenārtha-sañchayān

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।16.12।। सैकड़ों आशापाशों से बन्धे हुये, काम और क्रोध के वश में ये लोग विषयभोगों की पूर्ति के लिये अन्यायपूर्वक धन का संग्रह करने के लिये चेष्टा करते हैं।।
 

This is Chapter 16 Shloka 13 script:
idam adya mayā labdham imaṁ prāpsye manoratham
idam astīdam api me bhaviṣhyati punar dhanam

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।16.13।। मैंने आज यह पाया है और इस मनोरथ को भी प्राप्त करूंगा, मेरे पास यह इतना धन है और इससे भी अधिक धन भविष्य में होगा।।
 

This is Chapter 16 Shloka 14 script:
asau mayā hataḥ śhatrur haniṣhye chāparān api
īśhvaro ’ham ahaṁ bhogī siddho ’haṁ balavān sukhī

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।16.14।। "यह शत्रु मेरे द्वारा मारा गया है और दूसरे शत्रुओं को भी मैं मारूंगा", "मैं ईश्वर हूँ और भोगी हूँ", "मैं सिद्ध पुरुष हूँ", "मैं बलवान और सुखी हूँ",।।
 

This is Chapter 16 Shloka 15 script:
āḍhyo ’bhijanavān asmi ko ’nyo ’sti sadṛiśho mayā
yakṣhye dāsyāmi modiṣhya ity ajñāna-vimohitāḥ
 aneka-chitta-vibhrāntā moha-jāla-samāvṛitāḥ
prasaktāḥ kāma-bhogeṣhu patanti narake ’śhuchau

This is the meaning of the above verse: 'I am wealthy and of noble birth; who else is like me? I shall perform sacrifices; I shall give, I shall rejoice'- thus, they are deluded by a lack of discernment in diverse ways.

This is Chapter 16 Shloka 16 script:
aneka-citta-vibhrāntā    moha-jāla-samāvṛtāḥ prasaktāḥ   kāma-bhogeṣu    patanti narake  'śucau
This is the meaning of the above verse: Bewildered by numerous thoughts, ensnared in the net of delusion, and engrossed in the enjoyment of desirable objects, they fall into a foul hell.

This is Chapter 16 Shloka 17 script:
ātma-sambhāvitāḥ stabdhā dhana-māna-madānvitāḥ
yajante nāma-yajñais te dambhenāvidhi-pūrvakam

This is the meaning of the above verse: Self-conceited, self-sufficient, intoxicated by wealth and pride, they perform sacrifices in name only, ostentatiously and not according to the injunctions of the scriptures.

This is Chapter 16 Shloka 18 script:
ahankāraṁ balaṁ darpaṁ kāmaṁ krodhaṁ cha sanśhritāḥ
mām ātma-para-deheṣhu pradviṣhanto ’bhyasūyakāḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Depending on their egoism, power, and pride, as well as their desires and wrath, these malicious men hate Me in their own bodies and in those of others.

This is Chapter 16 Shloka 19 script:
tān ahaṁ dviṣhataḥ krūrān sansāreṣhu narādhamān
kṣhipāmy ajasram aśhubhān āsurīṣhv eva yoniṣhu

This is the meaning of the above verse: Those who are hateful, cruel, the vilest and most inauspicious of mankind, I hurl forever into the cycles of births and deaths, into the wombs of demons.

This is Chapter 16 Shloka 20 script:
āsurīṁ yonim āpannā mūḍhā janmani janmani
mām aprāpyaiva kaunteya tato yānty adhamāṁ gatim

This is the meaning of the above verse: So, reborn, they spend life after life enveloped in delusion, and they never reach Me, O Prince, but degenerate into even lower forms of life.

This is Chapter 16 Shloka 21 script:
tri-vidhaṁ narakasyedaṁ dvāraṁ nāśhanam ātmanaḥ
kāmaḥ krodhas tathā lobhas tasmād etat trayaṁ tyajet

This is the meaning of the above verse: There are three gates to this hell, destructive of the self: lust, anger, and greed; therefore, one should abandon these three.

This is Chapter 16 Shloka 22 script:
etair vimuktaḥ kaunteya tamo-dvārais tribhir naraḥ
ācharaty ātmanaḥ śhreyas tato yāti parāṁ gatim

This is the meaning of the above verse: One who has been released from these three gates of darkness, O Arjuna, works for the benefit of the self; thus, they reach the supreme state.

This is Chapter 16 Shloka 23 script:
yaḥ śhāstra-vidhim utsṛijya vartate kāma-kārataḥ
na sa siddhim avāpnoti na sukhaṁ na parāṁ gatim

This is the meaning of the above verse: He who, abandoning the injunctions of the Sastras, acts under the influence of desire, attains neither perfection nor pleasure, nor the supreme state.

This is Chapter 16 Shloka 24 script:
tasmāch chhāstraṁ pramāṇaṁ te kāryākārya-vyavasthitau
jñātvā śhāstra-vidhānoktaṁ karma kartum ihārhasi

This is the meaning of the above verse: Therefore, let the Sastra be your authority for determining what should be done and what should not be done. Knowing what is enjoined in the injunctions of the Sastra, you should perform work here.

