This is the script of the Sraddhatraya Vibhaga Yoga. It is the chapter number 17. It has 28 shlokas. The name means Yoga through Discerning the Three Divisions of Faith.

The seventeenth chapter of the Bhagavad Gita is "Sraddhatraya Vibhaga Yoga". In this chapter, Krishna describes the three types of faith corresponding to the three modes of the material nature. Lord Krishna further reveals that it is the nature of faith that determines the quality of life and the character of living entities. Those who have faith in passion and ignorance perform actions that yield temporary, material results while those who have faith in goodness perform actions in accordance with scriptural instructions and hence their hearts get further purified.

This is Chapter 17 Shloka 1 script:
arjuna uvācha
ye śhāstra-vidhim utsṛijya yajante śhraddhayānvitāḥ
teṣhāṁ niṣhṭhā tu kā kṛiṣhṇa sattvam āho rajas tamaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Arjuna said, "Now, O Krsna, what is the position or basis of those who, despite leaving aside the injunction of the Sastra, still worship with faith? Is it Sattva, Rajas, or Tamas?"

This is Chapter 17 Shloka 2 script:
śhrī-bhagavān uvācha
tri-vidhā bhavati śhraddhā dehināṁ sā svabhāva-jā
sāttvikī rājasī chaiva tāmasī cheti tāṁ śhṛiṇu

This is the meaning of the above verse: The Blessed Lord said, "That faith of the embodied beings, born of their own nature, is threefold—born of sattva, rajas, and tamas. Hear about it."

This is Chapter 17 Shloka 3 script:
sattvānurūpā sarvasya śhraddhā bhavati bhārata
śhraddhā-mayo ‘yaṁ puruṣho yo yach-chhraddhaḥ sa eva saḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: O Arjuna, the faith of everyone is in accordance with their inner organ (Antahkarana). Each person consists of faith; whatever their faith is, that is who they are.

This is Chapter 17 Shloka 4 script:
yajante sāttvikā devān yakṣha-rakṣhānsi rājasāḥ
pretān bhūta-gaṇānśh chānye yajante tāmasā janāḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: The sattvic types worship the gods; the rajasic types worship yaksas and rakshasas; and the others, the tamasic types, worship the departed ancestors and hosts of bhutas.

This is Chapter 17 Shloka 5 script:
aśhāstra-vihitaṁ ghoraṁ tapyante ye tapo janāḥ
dambhāhankāra-sanyuktāḥ kāma-rāga-balānvitāḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Those men who practice terrible austerities not enjoined by the scriptures, given to ostentation and conceit, and prompted by the force of sensual desires and passions;

This is Chapter 17 Shloka 6 script:
karṣhayantaḥ śharīra-sthaṁ bhūta-grāmam achetasaḥ
māṁ chaivāntaḥ śharīra-sthaṁ tān viddhy āsura-niśhchayān

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।17.6।। और शरीरस्थ भूतसमुदाय को तथा मुझ अन्तर्यामी को भी कृश करने वाले अर्थात् कष्ट पहुँचाने वाले जो अविवेकी लोग हैं, उन्हें तुम आसुरी निश्चय वाले जानो।।
 

This is Chapter 17 Shloka 7 script:
āhāras tv api sarvasya tri-vidho bhavati priyaḥ
yajñas tapas tathā dānaṁ teṣhāṁ bhedam imaṁ śhṛiṇu

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।17.7।।आहार भी सबको तीन प्रकारका प्रिय होता है और वैसे ही यज्ञ, दान और तप भी तीन प्रकारके होते हैं अर्थात् शास्त्रीय कर्मोंमें भी तीन प्रकारकी रुचि होती है, तू उनके इस भेदको सुन।

This is Chapter 17 Shloka 8 script:
āyuḥ-sattva-balārogya-sukha-prīti-vivardhanāḥ
rasyāḥ snigdhāḥ sthirā hṛidyā āhārāḥ sāttvika-priyāḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: The foods that increase life, purity, strength, health, joy, and cheerfulness (good appetite), which are savory, oily, substantial, and agreeable, are dear to the Sattvic (pure) people.

This is Chapter 17 Shloka 9 script:
kaṭv-amla-lavaṇāty-uṣhṇa- tīkṣhṇa-rūkṣha-vidāhinaḥ
āhārā rājasasyeṣhṭā duḥkha-śhokāmaya-pradāḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।17.9।।अति कड़वे, अति खट्टे, अति नमकीन, अति गरम, अति तीखे, अति रूखे और अति दाहकारक आहार अर्थात् भोजनके पदार्थ राजस मनुष्यको प्रिय होते हैं, जो कि दुःख, शोक और रोगोंको देनेवाले हैं।

This is Chapter 17 Shloka 10 script:
yāta-yāmaṁ gata-rasaṁ pūti paryuṣhitaṁ cha yat
uchchhiṣhṭam api chāmedhyaṁ bhojanaṁ tāmasa-priyam

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।17.10।।जो भोजन अधपका, रसरहित, दुर्गन्धित, बासी और उच्छिष्ट है तथा जो महान् अपवित्र भी है, वह तामस मनुष्यको प्रिय होता है।

This is Chapter 17 Shloka 11 script:
aphalākāṅkṣhibhir yajño vidhi-driṣhṭo ya ijyate
yaṣhṭavyam eveti manaḥ samādhāya sa sāttvikaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।17.11।।यज्ञ करना कर्तव्य है -- इस तरह मनको समाधान करके फलेच्छारहित मनुष्योंद्वारा जो शास्त्रविधिसे नियत यज्ञ किया जाता है, वह सात्त्विक है।

This is Chapter 17 Shloka 12 script:
abhisandhāya tu phalaṁ dambhārtham api chaiva yat
ijyate bharata-śhreṣhṭha taṁ yajñaṁ viddhi rājasam

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।17.12।।परन्तु हे भरतश्रेष्ठ अर्जुन ! जो यज्ञ फलकी इच्छाको लेकर अथवा दम्भ-(दिखावटीपन-) के लिये भी किया जाता है, उसको तुम राजस समझो।

This is Chapter 17 Shloka 13 script:
vidhi-hīnam asṛiṣhṭānnaṁ mantra-hīnam adakṣhiṇam
śhraddhā-virahitaṁ yajñaṁ tāmasaṁ parichakṣhate

This is the meaning of the above verse: They declare that sacrifice as 'done through tamas' which is contrary to injunction, in which no food is distributed, in which no mantras are used, in which no offerings are made to priests, and which is devoid of faith.

This is Chapter 17 Shloka 14 script:
deva-dwija-guru-prājña- pūjanaṁ śhaucham ārjavam
brahmacharyam ahinsā cha śhārīraṁ tapa uchyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।17.14।। देव, द्विज (ब्राह्मण), गुरु और ज्ञानी जनों का पूजन, शौच, आर्जव (सरलता), ब्रह्मचर्य और अहिंसा, यह शरीर संबंधी तप कहा जाता है।।
 

This is Chapter 17 Shloka 15 script:
anudvega-karaṁ vākyaṁ satyaṁ priya-hitaṁ cha yat
svādhyāyābhyasanaṁ chaiva vāṅ-mayaṁ tapa uchyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।17.15।। जो वाक्य (भाषण) उद्वेग उत्पन्न करने वाला नहीं है, जो प्रिय, हितकारक और सत्य है तथा वेदों का स्वाध्याय अभ्यास वाङ्मय (वाणी का) तप कहलाता है।।
 

This is Chapter 17 Shloka 16 script:
manaḥ-prasādaḥ saumyatvaṁ maunam ātma-vinigrahaḥ
bhāva-sanśhuddhir ity etat tapo mānasam uchyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।17.16।। मन की प्रसन्नता, सौम्यभाव, मौन आत्मसंयम और अन्त:करण की शुद्धि यह सब मानस तप कहलाता है।।
 

This is Chapter 17 Shloka 17 script:
śhraddhayā parayā taptaṁ tapas tat tri-vidhaṁ naraiḥ
aphalākāṅkṣhibhir yuktaiḥ sāttvikaṁ parichakṣhate

This is the meaning of the above verse: This threefold austerity, practiced by steadfast men, with the utmost faith, desiring no reward, is called Sattvic.

This is Chapter 17 Shloka 18 script:
satkāra-māna-pūjārthaṁ tapo dambhena chaiva yat
kriyate tad iha proktaṁ rājasaṁ chalam adhruvam

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।17.18।।जो तप सत्कार, मान और पूजाके लिये तथा दिखानेके भावसे किया जाता है, वह इस लोकमें अनिश्चित और नाशवान् फल देनेवाला तप राजस कहा गया है।

This is Chapter 17 Shloka 19 script:
mūḍha-grāheṇātmano yat pīḍayā kriyate tapaḥ
parasyotsādanārthaṁ vā tat tāmasam udāhṛitam

This is the meaning of the above verse: That austerity which is practised out of a foolish notion, with self-torture, or for the purpose of destroying another, is declared to be of the Tamasic nature.

This is Chapter 17 Shloka 20 script:
dātavyam iti yad dānaṁ dīyate ‘nupakāriṇe
deśhe kāle cha pātre cha tad dānaṁ sāttvikaṁ smṛitam

This is the meaning of the above verse: Gifts given with the feeling that it is one's own duty to give, to one who makes no return, at the proper place and time to the deserving person—that is said to be sattvika.

This is Chapter 17 Shloka 21 script:
yat tu pratyupakārārthaṁ phalam uddiśhya vā punaḥ
dīyate cha parikliṣhṭaṁ tad dānaṁ rājasaṁ smṛitam

This is the meaning of the above verse: But that which is given as a consideration for something received or in expectation of a future reward, or grudgingly, is called a Rajasika gift.

This is Chapter 17 Shloka 22 script:
adeśha-kāle yad dānam apātrebhyaśh cha dīyate
asat-kṛitam avajñātaṁ tat tāmasam udāhṛitam

This is the meaning of the above verse: That gift which is given at the wrong place, wrong time, to an unworthy recipient, without due respect and with contempt, is called the gift of a Tamasa nature.

This is Chapter 17 Shloka 23 script:
oṁ tat sad iti nirdeśho brahmaṇas tri-vidhaḥ smṛitaḥ
brāhmaṇās tena vedāśh cha yajñāśh cha vihitāḥ purā

This is the meaning of the above verse: Om, Tat, Sat—thus, Brahman is denoted by this threefold expression. In the past, Brahmanas, the Vedas, and sacrifices were ordained in association with these.

This is Chapter 17 Shloka 24 script:
tasmād oṁ ity udāhṛitya yajña-dāna-tapaḥ-kriyāḥ
pravartante vidhānoktāḥ satataṁ brahma-vādinām

This is the meaning of the above verse: Therefore, acts of sacrifice, charity, and austerity, as prescribed through injunctions, of those who study and expound the Vedas, always commence after uttering the syllable ‘Om’.

This is Chapter 17 Shloka 25 script:
tad ity anabhisandhāya phalaṁ yajña-tapaḥ-kriyāḥ
dāna-kriyāśh cha vividhāḥ kriyante mokṣha-kāṅkṣhibhiḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Acts of sacrifice, austerity, and various gifts are performed without aiming at a reward by those who seek release, after pronouncing Tat.

This is Chapter 17 Shloka 26 script:
sad-bhāve sādhu-bhāve cha sad ity etat prayujyate
praśhaste karmaṇi tathā sach-chhabdaḥ pārtha yujyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: This term "Sat" is used in the sense of existence and goodness. And so also, O Arjuna, the word "Sat" is applied to an auspicious action.

This is Chapter 17 Shloka 27 script:
yajñe tapasi dāne cha sthitiḥ sad iti chochyate
karma chaiva tad-arthīyaṁ sad ity evābhidhīyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: Devotion to sacrifice, austerity, and gifts is also referred to as Sat; and thus, any action for such purposes is known as Sat.

This is Chapter 17 Shloka 28 script:
aśhraddhayā hutaṁ dattaṁ tapas taptaṁ kṛitaṁ cha yat
asad ity uchyate pārtha na cha tat pretya no iha

This is the meaning of the above verse: Whatever offering or gift is made, whatever austerity is practiced, and whatever action is performed without faith, that is called Asat, O Arjuna. It is of no value here or hereafter.

