This is the script of the Karma Sanyasa Yoga. It is the chapter number 5. It has 29 shlokas. The name means Path of Renunciation.

The fifth chapter of the Bhagavad Gita is "Karma Sanyasa Yoga". In this chapter, Krishna compares the paths of renunciation in actions (Karma Sanyas) and actions with detachment (Karma Yoga) and explains that both are means to reach the same goal and we can choose either. A wise person should perform his/her worldly duties without attachment to the fruits of his/her actions and dedicate them to God. This way they remain unaffected by sin and eventually attain liberation.

This is Chapter 5 Shloka 1 script:
arjuna uvācha
sannyāsaṁ karmaṇāṁ kṛiṣhṇa punar yogaṁ cha śhansasi
yach chhreya etayor ekaṁ tan me brūhi su-niśhchitam


This is the meaning of the above verse: Arjuna said, "O Krishna, you praise renunciation of actions and also yoga. Please tell me conclusively which is better of the two."

This is Chapter 5 Shloka 2 script:
śhrī bhagavān uvācha
sannyāsaḥ karma-yogaśh cha niḥśhreyasa-karāvubhau
tayos tu karma-sannyāsāt karma-yogo viśhiṣhyate


This is the meaning of the above verse: The Blessed Lord said, "Renunciation and the Yoga of action both lead to the highest bliss; but of the two, the Yoga of action is superior to the renunciation of action."

This is Chapter 5 Shloka 3 script:
jñeyaḥ sa nitya-sannyāsī yo na dveṣhṭi na kāṅkṣhati
nirdvandvo hi mahā-bāho sukhaṁ bandhāt pramuchyate


This is the meaning of the above verse: He should be known as a perpetual Sannyasi who neither hates nor desires; for, free from the pairs of opposites, O mighty-armed Arjuna, he is easily freed from bondage.

This is Chapter 5 Shloka 4 script:
sānkhya-yogau pṛithag bālāḥ pravadanti na paṇḍitāḥ
ekamapyāsthitaḥ samyag ubhayor vindate phalam


This is the meaning of the above verse: Children, not the wise, speak of knowledge and the Yoga of action, or the performance of action, as though they are distinct and different; he who is truly established in one, obtains the fruits of both.

This is Chapter 5 Shloka 5 script:

yat sānkhyaiḥ prāpyate sthānaṁ tad yogair api gamyate
ekaṁ sānkhyaṁ cha yogaṁ cha yaḥ paśhyati sa paśhyati


This is the meaning of the above verse: The state that is reached by the Sankhyas, and that is also reached by the yogis, is seen by one who sees Sankhya and yoga as one.

This is Chapter 5 Shloka 6 script:
sannyāsas tu mahā-bāho duḥkham āptum ayogataḥ
yoga-yukto munir brahma na chireṇādhigachchhati


This is the meaning of the above verse: But, O mighty-armed one, renunciation is hard to attain without (Karma-) yoga. The meditative man equipped with yoga attains Brahman without delay.

This is Chapter 5 Shloka 7 script:
yoga-yukto viśhuddhātmā vijitātmā jitendriyaḥ
sarva-bhūtātma-bhūtātmā kurvann api na lipyate


This is the meaning of the above verse: He who is devoted to the path of action, whose mind is pure, who has conquered the self, who has subdued his senses, and who realizes his Self as the Self in all beings, though acting, is not tainted.

This is Chapter 5 Shloka 8 script:
naiva kiñchit karomīti yukto manyeta tattva-vit
paśhyañ śhṛiṇvan spṛiśhañjighrann aśhnangachchhan svapañśhvasan
 pralapan visṛijan gṛihṇann unmiṣhan nimiṣhann api
indriyāṇīndriyārtheṣhu vartanta iti dhārayan

This is the meaning of the above verse: "I do nothing at all," thus would the harmonized knower of Truth think, seeing, hearing, touching, smelling, eating, going, sleeping, and breathing.

This is Chapter 5 Shloka 9 script:
pralapan visṛjan gṛhṇann unmiṣan nimiṣann api indriyāṇīndriyārtheṣu vartanta iti dhārayan
This is the meaning of the above verse: Speaking, letting go, seizing, opening, and closing the eyes, one should be convinced that the senses move among the sense-objects.

This is Chapter 5 Shloka 10 script:
brahmaṇyādhāya karmāṇi saṅgaṁ tyaktvā karoti yaḥ
lipyate na sa pāpena padma-patram ivāmbhasā


This is the meaning of the above verse: He who does actions, offering them to Brahman and abandoning attachment, is not tainted by sin, just as a lotus leaf is not tainted by water.

This is Chapter 5 Shloka 11 script:
kāyena manasā buddhyā kevalair indriyair api
yoginaḥ karma kurvanti saṅgaṁ tyaktvātma-śhuddhaye


This is the meaning of the above verse: Yogis, having abandoned attachment, perform actions only through the body, mind, intellect, and even the senses, for the purification of the self.

This is Chapter 5 Shloka 12 script:
yuktaḥ karma-phalaṁ tyaktvā śhāntim āpnoti naiṣhṭhikīm
ayuktaḥ kāma-kāreṇa phale sakto nibadhyate


This is the meaning of the above verse: The one who is united (the well-poised or harmonized) having abandoned the fruit of action attains eternal peace; whereas the one who is not united (the unsteady or unbalanced), impelled by desire and attached to the fruit, is bound.

This is Chapter 5 Shloka 13 script:
sarva-karmāṇi manasā sannyasyāste sukhaṁ vaśhī
nava-dvāre pure dehī naiva kurvan na kārayan


This is the meaning of the above verse: Mentally renouncing all actions and being self-controlled, the embodied one happily rests in the nine-gated city, neither acting nor causing others (body and senses) to act.

This is Chapter 5 Shloka 14 script:
na kartṛitvaṁ na karmāṇi lokasya sṛijati prabhuḥ
na karma-phala-saṅyogaṁ svabhāvas tu pravartate


This is the meaning of the above verse: The Lord (Self) acquires neither the state of being a creator of the world, nor the actions, nor the connection with the fruits of their actions. But it is the inherent nature [in It] that exerts.

This is Chapter 5 Shloka 15 script:
nādatte kasyachit pāpaṁ na chaiva sukṛitaṁ vibhuḥ
ajñānenāvṛitaṁ jñānaṁ tena muhyanti jantavaḥ


This is the meaning of the above verse: The Lord takes neither the demerit nor the merit of any; knowledge is enveloped by ignorance, and beings are deluded.

This is Chapter 5 Shloka 16 script:
jñānena tu tad ajñānaṁ yeṣhāṁ nāśhitam ātmanaḥ
teṣhām āditya-vaj jñānaṁ prakāśhayati tat param


This is the meaning of the above verse: But to those whose ignorance is destroyed by knowledge of the Self, like the sun, knowledge reveals the Supreme Brahman.

This is Chapter 5 Shloka 17 script:
tad-buddhayas tad-ātmānas tan-niṣhṭhās tat-parāyaṇāḥ
gachchhantyapunar-āvṛittiṁ jñāna-nirdhūta-kalmaṣhāḥ


This is the meaning of the above verse: Their intellect absorbed in That, their self being That, established in That, with That as their supreme goal, they go whence there is no return, their sins dispelled by knowledge.

This is Chapter 5 Shloka 18 script:
vidyā-vinaya-sampanne brāhmaṇe gavi hastini
śhuni chaiva śhva-pāke cha paṇḍitāḥ sama-darśhinaḥ


This is the meaning of the above verse: The learned ones look with equanimity on a Brahmana endowed with learning and humility, a cow, an elephant, and even a dog, as well as one who eats dog meat.

This is Chapter 5 Shloka 19 script:
ihaiva tair jitaḥ sargo yeṣhāṁ sāmye sthitaṁ manaḥ
nirdoṣhaṁ hi samaṁ brahma tasmād brahmaṇi te sthitāḥ


This is the meaning of the above verse: Here itself is mirth attained by those whose minds are established in sameness. Since Brahman is the same in all and free from defects, they are established in Brahman.

This is Chapter 5 Shloka 20 script:
na prahṛiṣhyet priyaṁ prāpya nodvijet prāpya chāpriyam
sthira-buddhir asammūḍho brahma-vid brahmaṇi sthitaḥ


This is the meaning of the above verse: Resting in Brahman, with a steady intellect and undeluded, the knower of Brahman neither rejoices upon obtaining what is pleasant nor grieves upon obtaining what is unpleasant.

This is Chapter 5 Shloka 21 script:
bāhya-sparśheṣhvasaktātmā vindatyātmani yat sukham
sa brahma-yoga-yuktātmā sukham akṣhayam aśhnute


This is the meaning of the above verse: With his heart unattached to external objects, he gets the bliss that is in the Self. With his heart absorbed in meditation on Brahman, he acquires undying Bliss.

This is Chapter 5 Shloka 22 script:
ye hi sansparśha-jā bhogā duḥkha-yonaya eva te
ādyantavantaḥ kaunteya na teṣhu ramate budhaḥ


This is the meaning of the above verse: The enjoyments that arise from contact are only sources of pain, for they have a beginning and an end, O Arjuna; the wise do not rejoice in them.

This is Chapter 5 Shloka 23 script:
śhaknotīhaiva yaḥ soḍhuṁ prāk śharīra-vimokṣhaṇāt
kāma-krodhodbhavaṁ vegaṁ sa yuktaḥ sa sukhī naraḥ


This is the meaning of the above verse: He who is able, while still here in this world, to withstand the impulse born out of desire and anger before the liberation from the body, he is a Yogi, and he is a happy man.

This is Chapter 5 Shloka 24 script:
yo 'ntaḥ-sukho 'ntar-ārāmas tathāntar-jyotir eva yaḥ
sa yogī brahma-nirvāṇaṁ brahma-bhūto 'dhigachchhati


This is the meaning of the above verse: One who is content within, whose pleasure is within, and whose light is only within, that yogi, having become Brahman, attains absorption into Brahman.

This is Chapter 5 Shloka 25 script:
labhante brahma-nirvāṇam ṛiṣhayaḥ kṣhīṇa-kalmaṣhāḥ
chhinna-dvaidhā yatātmānaḥ sarva-bhūta-hite ratāḥ


This is the meaning of the above verse: The seers whose sins have been attenuated, who are free from doubt, whose senses are under control, who are engaged in doing good to all beings, attain absorption in Brahman.

This is Chapter 5 Shloka 26 script:
kāma-krodha-viyuktānāṁ yatīnāṁ yata-chetasām
abhito brahma-nirvāṇaṁ vartate viditātmanām


This is the meaning of the above verse: To those monks who have control over their internal organs, who are free from desire and anger, who have known the Self, there is absorption into Brahman either way.

This is Chapter 5 Shloka 27 script:
sparśhān kṛitvā bahir bāhyānśh chakṣhuśh chaivāntare bhruvoḥ
prāṇāpānau samau kṛitvā nāsābhyantara-chāriṇau
 yatendriya-mano-buddhir munir mokṣha-parāyaṇaḥ
vigatechchhā-bhaya-krodho yaḥ sadā mukta eva saḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Shutting out all external contacts and fixing the gaze between the eyebrows, realizing the outgoing and incoming breaths moving within the nostrils.

This is Chapter 5 Shloka 28 script:
yatendriya-mano-buddhir  munir   mokṣa-parāyaṇaḥ vigatecchā-bhaya-krodho yaḥ sadā    mukta   eva saḥ
This is the meaning of the above verse: The sage who has controlled his senses, mind, and intellect, who is intent on release as his final goal, freed forever from desire, fear, and wrath, is indeed liberated forever.

This is Chapter 5 Shloka 29 script:
bhoktāraṁ yajña-tapasāṁ sarva-loka-maheśhvaram
suhṛidaṁ sarva-bhūtānāṁ jñātvā māṁ śhāntim ṛichchhati


This is the meaning of the above verse: Knowing Me as the enjoyer of all sacrifices and austerities, as the Supreme Lord of all worlds, as the Friend of every being, he attains peace.

