This is the script of the Purushottama Yoga. It is the chapter number 15. It has 20 shlokas. The name means The Yoga of the Supreme Divine Personality.

The fifteenth chapter of the Bhagavad Gita is "Purushottama Yoga". In Sanskrit, Purusha means the "All-pervading God", and Purushottam means the timeless & transcendental aspect of God.        Krishna reveals that the purpose of this Transcendental knowledge of the God is to detach ourselves from the bondage of the material world and to understand Krishna as the Supreme Divine Personality, who is the eternal controller and sustainer of the world. One who understands this Ultimate Truth surrenders to Him and engages in His devotional service.

This is Chapter 15 Shloka 1 script:
śhrī-bhagavān uvācha
ūrdhva-mūlam adhaḥ-śhākham aśhvatthaṁ prāhur avyayam
chhandānsi yasya parṇāni yas taṁ veda sa veda-vit

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।15.1।। श्री भगवान् ने कहा -- (ज्ञानी पुरुष इस संसार वृक्ष को) ऊर्ध्वमूल और अध:शाखा वाला अश्वत्थ और अव्यय कहते हैं; जिसके पर्ण छन्द अर्थात् वेद हैं, ऐसे (संसार वृक्ष) को जो जानता है, वह वेदवित् है।।
 

This is Chapter 15 Shloka 2 script:
adhaśh chordhvaṁ prasṛitās tasya śhākhā
guṇa-pravṛiddhā viṣhaya-pravālāḥ
adhaśh cha mūlāny anusantatāni
karmānubandhīni manuṣhya-loke

This is the meaning of the above verse: (a) Its branches extend both above and below, nourished by the Gunas. Their shoots are sense objects. 

(b) And their secondary roots extend downwards, resulting in actions that bind in the world of humans.

This is Chapter 15 Shloka 3 script:
na rūpam asyeha tathopalabhyate
nānto na chādir na cha sampratiṣhṭhā
aśhvattham enaṁ su-virūḍha-mūlam
asaṅga-śhastreṇa dṛiḍhena chhittvā


This is the meaning of the above verse: Its form is not perceived here in that way; nor its end, nor beginning, nor its continuance. After felling this Peepul tree whose roots are well developed, with the strong sword of detachment.

This is Chapter 15 Shloka 4 script:
tataḥ padaṁ tat parimārgitavyaṁ
yasmin gatā na nivartanti bhūyaḥ
tam eva chādyaṁ puruṣhaṁ prapadye
yataḥ pravṛittiḥ prasṛitā purāṇī

This is the meaning of the above verse: Then, one should seek that goal, attaining which one never returns. One should seek refuge with that Primal Person from whom this ancient activity streamed forth.

This is Chapter 15 Shloka 5 script:
nirmāna-mohā jita-saṅga-doṣhā
adhyātma-nityā vinivṛitta-kāmāḥ
dvandvair vimuktāḥ sukha-duḥkha-sanjñair
gachchhanty amūḍhāḥ padam avyayaṁ tat

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।15.5।। जिनका मान और मोह निवृत्त हो गया है, जिन्होंने संगदोष को जीत लिया है, जो अध्यात्म में स्थित हैं जिनकी कामनाएं निवृत्त हो चुकी हैं और जो सुख-दु:ख नामक द्वन्द्वों से विमुक्त हो गये हैं, ऐसे सम्मोह रहित ज्ञानीजन उस अव्यय पद को प्राप्त होते हैं।।
 

This is Chapter 15 Shloka 6 script:
na tad bhāsayate sūryo na śhaśhāṅko na pāvakaḥ
yad gatvā na nivartante tad dhāma paramaṁ mama


This is the meaning of the above verse: Neither the sun nor the moon nor fire illuminates That. That is My supreme Abode, to which they do not return.

This is Chapter 15 Shloka 7 script:
mamaivānśho jīva-loke jīva-bhūtaḥ sanātanaḥ
manaḥ-ṣhaṣhṭhānīndriyāṇi prakṛiti-sthāni karṣhati

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।15.7।।इस संसारमें जीव बना हुआ आत्मा मेरा ही सनातन अंश है; परन्तु वह प्रकृतिमें स्थित मन और पाँचों इन्द्रियोंको आकर्षित करता है (अपना मान लेता है)।

This is Chapter 15 Shloka 8 script:
śharīraṁ yad avāpnoti yach chāpy utkrāmatīśhvaraḥ
gṛihītvaitāni sanyāti vāyur gandhān ivāśhayāt

This is the meaning of the above verse: When the Supreme Lord enters a body or leaves it, He gathers these senses together and travels with them, as the wind gathers perfume while passing through the flowers.

This is Chapter 15 Shloka 9 script:
śhrotraṁ chakṣhuḥ sparśhanaṁ cha rasanaṁ ghrāṇam eva cha
adhiṣhṭhāya manaśh chāyaṁ viṣhayān upasevate

This is the meaning of the above verse: Presiding over the ear, the eye, the sense of touch, the sense of taste, the sense of smell, and the mind, He enjoys the sense objects.

This is Chapter 15 Shloka 10 script:
utkrāmantaṁ sthitaṁ vāpi bhuñjānaṁ vā guṇānvitam
vimūḍhā nānupaśhyanti paśhyanti jñāna-chakṣhuṣhaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: The deluded do not see Him who departs, stays, and enjoys; but those who possess the eye of knowledge behold Him.

This is Chapter 15 Shloka 11 script:
yatanto yoginaśh chainaṁ paśhyanty ātmany avasthitam
yatanto ‘py akṛitātmāno nainaṁ paśhyanty achetasaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: The yogis striving for perfection behold Him dwelling in the Self; but, the unrefined and unintelligent, even though striving, do not see Him.

This is Chapter 15 Shloka 12 script:
yad āditya-gataṁ tejo jagad bhāsayate ’khilam
yach chandramasi yach chāgnau tat tejo viddhi māmakam

This is the meaning of the above verse: Know that the brilliance which illumines the whole universe in the sun, the moon, and fire is Mine.

This is Chapter 15 Shloka 13 script:
gām āviśhya cha bhūtāni dhārayāmy aham ojasā
puṣhṇāmi chauṣhadhīḥ sarvāḥ somo bhūtvā rasātmakaḥ


This is the meaning of the above verse: And, entering the earth, I uphold all beings with My strength. I nourish all herbs, becoming the juicy Soma.

This is Chapter 15 Shloka 14 script:
ahaṁ vaiśhvānaro bhūtvā prāṇināṁ deham āśhritaḥ
prāṇāpāna-samāyuktaḥ pachāmy annaṁ chatur-vidham


This is the meaning of the above verse: Taking the form of Vaisvanara, and residing in the bodies of creatures, I, in association with Prana and Apana, digest the four kinds of food.

This is Chapter 15 Shloka 15 script:
sarvasya chāhaṁ hṛidi sanniviṣhṭo
mattaḥ smṛitir jñānam apohanaṁ cha
vedaiśh cha sarvair aham eva vedyo
vedānta-kṛid veda-vid eva chāham


This is the meaning of the above verse: And I am seated in the hearts of all. From Me come memory, knowledge, and their removal too. Indeed, I alone am to be known from all the Vedas. I bring about the fruition of the Vedic rituals; I alone am the knower of the Vedas.

This is Chapter 15 Shloka 16 script:
dvāv imau puruṣhau loke kṣharaśh chākṣhara eva cha
kṣharaḥ sarvāṇi bhūtāni kūṭa-stho ’kṣhara uchyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: There are two kinds of persons spoken of in the sastra: the perishable (ksara) and the imperishable (aksara). All beings are perishable, while the imperishable is called the unchanging (kutastha).

This is Chapter 15 Shloka 17 script:
uttamaḥ puruṣhas tv anyaḥ paramātmety udāhṛitaḥ
yo loka-trayam āviśhya bibharty avyaya īśhvaraḥ


This is the meaning of the above verse: There is a Supreme Person other than these. He is referred to as the Supreme Self (Paramatma) in all the Vedas. He, as the Immutable One and the Lord, enters the threefold world and supports it.

This is Chapter 15 Shloka 18 script:
yasmāt kṣharam atīto ’ham akṣharād api chottamaḥ
ato ’smi loke vede cha prathitaḥ puruṣhottamaḥ


This is the meaning of the above verse: Because I have transcended both the perishable and the imperishable, I am acclaimed in the world and in the Vedas as the highest of persons.

This is Chapter 15 Shloka 19 script:
yo mām evam asammūḍho jānāti puruṣhottamam
sa sarva-vid bhajati māṁ sarva-bhāvena bhārata


This is the meaning of the above verse: He who, undeluded, knows Me as the highest Purusha, he, knowing all, worships Me with his whole being (heart), O Arjuna.

This is Chapter 15 Shloka 20 script:
iti guhyatamaṁ śhāstram idam uktaṁ mayānagha
etad buddhvā buddhimān syāt kṛita-kṛityaśh cha bhārata

This is the meaning of the above verse: Thus, O sinless one, this most mysterious doctrine has been imparted by Me. By understanding this, one will become truly wise and fulfill their duty.

