This is the script of the Dhyana Yoga. It is the chapter number 6. It has 47 shlokas. The name means Path of Meditation.

The sixth chapter of the Bhagavad Gita is "Dhyana Yoga". In this chapter, Krishna reveals the "Yoga of Meditation" and how to practise this Yoga. He discusses the role of action in preparing for Meditation, how performing duties in devotion purifies one's mind and heightens one's spiritual consciousness. He explains in detail the obstacles that one faces when trying to control their mind and the exact methods by which one can conquer their mind. He reveals how one can focus their mind on Paramatma and unite with the God.

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 1 script:
śhrī bhagavān uvācha
anāśhritaḥ karma-phalaṁ kāryaṁ karma karoti yaḥ
sa sannyāsī cha yogī cha na niragnir na chākriyaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: The Blessed Lord said, "He who performs an action which is his duty, without depending on the result of the action, is a monk and a yogi; not so in he who does not keep afire and is actionless."

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 2 script:
yaṁ sannyāsam iti prāhur yogaṁ taṁ viddhi pāṇḍava
na hyasannyasta-saṅkalpo yogī bhavati kaśhchana

This is the meaning of the above verse: That which is called Sannyasa (Jnana Yoga), know that to be Yoga (Karma Yoga), O Arjuna. For no one, among Karma Yogins, whose delusive identification of the body with the self has not been abandoned, becomes a true Karma Yogin.

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 3 script:
ārurukṣhor muner yogaṁ karma kāraṇam uchyate
yogārūḍhasya tasyaiva śhamaḥ kāraṇam uchyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: Action is said to be the means for the sage who seeks to climb the heights of Yoga; but when he has climbed the heights of Yoga, tranquility is said to be the means.

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 4 script:
yadā hi nendriyārtheṣhu na karmasv-anuṣhajjate
sarva-saṅkalpa-sannyāsī yogārūḍhas tadochyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: For, when one loses attachment to the things of the senses and to actions, then they have abandoned all desires and are said to have climbed the heights of Yoga.

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 5 script:
uddhared ātmanātmānaṁ nātmānam avasādayet
ātmaiva hyātmano bandhur ātmaiva ripur ātmanaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: One should raise oneself by one's own mind and not allow oneself to sink; for the mind alone is the friend of the self, and the mind alone is the foe of the self.

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 6 script:
bandhur ātmātmanas tasya yenātmaivātmanā jitaḥ
anātmanas tu śhatrutve vartetātmaiva śhatru-vat

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।6.6।। जिसने आत्मा (इंद्रियों,आदि) को आत्मा के द्वारा जीत लिया है, उस पुरुष का आत्मा उसका मित्र होता है, परन्तु अजितेन्द्रिय के लिए आत्मा शत्रु के समान स्थित होता है।।
 

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 7 script:
jitātmanaḥ praśhāntasya paramātmā samāhitaḥ
śhītoṣhṇa-sukha-duḥkheṣhu tathā mānāpamānayoḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: The supreme Self of one who has control over the aggregate of his body and organs, and who is tranquil, becomes manifest. He should be poised in the midst of cold and heat, happiness and sorrow, as well as honor and dishonor.

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 8 script:
jñāna-vijñāna-tṛiptātmā kūṭa-stho vijitendriyaḥ
yukta ityuchyate yogī sama-loṣhṭāśhma-kāñchanaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: The yogin whose mind is content with knowledge of the self and also with knowledge of the difference between the self and Prakrti, who is established in the self, whose senses are subdued, and to whom earth, stone, and gold all seem alike, is called integrated.

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 9 script:
suhṛin-mitrāryudāsīna-madhyastha-dveṣhya-bandhuṣhu
sādhuṣhvapi cha pāpeṣhu sama-buddhir viśhiṣhyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: He who regards with an equal eye well-wishers, friends, foes, the indifferent, neutrals, the hateful, the relations, and even the good and the sinful—he excels.

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 10 script:
yogī yuñjīta satatam ātmānaṁ rahasi sthitaḥ
ekākī yata-chittātmā nirāśhīr aparigrahaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: The yogin should constantly fix his mind on yoga, remaining in a solitary place all alone, controlling his thoughts and mind, free from desire and a sense of possession.

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 11 script:
śhuchau deśhe pratiṣhṭhāpya sthiram āsanam ātmanaḥ
nātyuchchhritaṁ nāti-nīchaṁ chailājina-kuśhottaram

This is the meaning of the above verse: Having established for himself, in a clean spot, a firm seat that is neither too high nor too low, and covering it with cloth, deer-skin, and Kusa grass in reverse order—

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 12 script:
tatraikāgraṁ manaḥ kṛitvā yata-chittendriya-kriyaḥ
upaviśhyāsane yuñjyād yogam ātma-viśhuddhaye

This is the meaning of the above verse: Sitting on that seat, he should concentrate his mind for the purification of the internal organ, making the mind one-pointed and keeping the actions of the mind and senses under control.

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 13 script:
samaṁ kāya-śhiro-grīvaṁ dhārayann achalaṁ sthiraḥ
samprekṣhya nāsikāgraṁ svaṁ diśhaśh chānavalokayan

This is the meaning of the above verse: Let him firmly hold his body, head, and neck erect and still, gazing at the tip of his nose without looking around.

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 14 script:
praśhāntātmā vigata-bhīr brahmachāri-vrate sthitaḥ
manaḥ sanyamya mach-chitto yukta āsīta mat-paraḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।6.14।। जिसका अन्तःकरण शान्त है, जो भय-रहित है और जो ब्रह्मचारिव्रतमें स्थित है, ऐसा सावधान योगी मनका संयम करके मेरेमें चित्त लगाता हुआ मेरे परायण होकर बैठे। 

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 15 script:
yuñjann evaṁ sadātmānaṁ yogī niyata-mānasaḥ
śhantiṁ nirvāṇa-paramāṁ mat-sansthām adhigachchhati

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।6.15।। इस प्रकार सदा मन को स्थिर करने का प्रयास करता हुआ संयमित मन का योगी मुझमें स्थित परम निर्वाण (मोक्ष) स्वरूप शांति को प्राप्त होता है।।

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 16 script:
nātyaśhnatastu yogo ’sti na chaikāntam anaśhnataḥ
na chāti-svapna-śhīlasya jāgrato naiva chārjuna

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।6.16।। परन्तु, हे अर्जुन ! यह योग उस पुरुष के लिए सम्भव नहीं होता, जो अधिक खाने वाला है या बिल्कुल न खाने वाला है तथा जो अधिक सोने वाला है या सदा जागने वाला है।।
 

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 17 script:
yuktāhāra-vihārasya yukta-cheṣhṭasya karmasu
yukta-svapnāvabodhasya yogo bhavati duḥkha-hā

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।6.17।। दुःखोंका नाश करनेवाला योग तो यथायोग्य आहार और विहार करनेवालेका, कर्मोंमें यथायोग्य चेष्टा करनेवालेका तथा यथायोग्य सोने और जागनेवालेका ही सिद्ध होता है। 

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 18 script:
yadā viniyataṁ chittam ātmanyevāvatiṣhṭhate
niḥspṛihaḥ sarva-kāmebhyo yukta ityuchyate tadā

This is the meaning of the above verse: When the perfectly controlled mind rests in the Self alone, free from longing for any of the objects of desire, then it is said, 'He is united'.

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 19 script:
yathā dīpo nivāta-stho neṅgate sopamā smṛitā
yogino yata-chittasya yuñjato yogam ātmanaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।6.19।। जैसे स्पन्दनरहित वायुके स्थानमें स्थित दीपककी लौ चेष्टारहित हो जाती है, योगका अभ्यास करते हुए यतचित्तवाले योगीके चित्तकी वैसी ही उपमा कही गयी है।।
 

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 20 script:
yatroparamate chittaṁ niruddhaṁ yoga-sevayā
yatra chaivātmanātmānaṁ paśhyann ātmani tuṣhyati

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।6.20।। योगका सेवन करनेसे जिस अवस्थामें निरुध्द चित्त उपराम हो जाता है तथा जिस अवस्थामें स्वयं अपने-आपमें अपने-आपको देखता हुआ अपने-आपमें सन्तुष्ट हो जाता है।।
 

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 21 script:
sukham ātyantikaṁ yat tad buddhi-grāhyam atīndriyam
vetti yatra na chaivāyaṁ sthitaśh chalati tattvataḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।6.21।। जो सुख आत्यन्तिक, अतीन्द्रिय और बुध्दिग्राह्म है, उस सुखका जिस अवस्थामें अनुभव करता है और जिस सुखमें स्थित हुआ यह ध्यानयोगी फिर कभी तत्वसे विचलित नहीं होता है।।
 

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 22 script:
yaṁ labdhvā chāparaṁ lābhaṁ manyate nādhikaṁ tataḥ
yasmin sthito na duḥkhena guruṇāpi vichālyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: Obtaining which one does not consider any other acquisition to be superior, and being established in which one is not perturbed even by great sorrow;

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 23 script:
taṁ vidyād duḥkha-sanyoga-viyogaṁ yogasaṅjñitam
sa niśhchayena yoktavyo yogo ’nirviṇṇa-chetasā

This is the meaning of the above verse: Let this be known by the name of Yoga, the severance from union with pain. This Yoga should be practiced with determination and with an undespairing mind.

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 24 script:
saṅkalpa-prabhavān kāmāns tyaktvā sarvān aśheṣhataḥ
manasaivendriya-grāmaṁ viniyamya samantataḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Renouncing every desire that can be imagined, controlling the senses at every point through the power of the mind;

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 25 script:
śhanaiḥ śhanair uparamed buddhyā dhṛiti-gṛihītayā
ātma-sansthaṁ manaḥ kṛitvā na kiñchid api chintayet

This is the meaning of the above verse: Little by little, with the help of his reason controlled by fortitude, let him attain peace; and, fixing his mind on the Self, let him not think of anything else.

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 26 script:
yato yato niśhcharati manaśh chañchalam asthiram
tatas tato niyamyaitad ātmanyeva vaśhaṁ nayet

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।6.26।। यह अस्थिर और चञ्चल मन जहाँ-जहाँ विचरण करता है, वहाँ-वहाँसे हटाकर इसको एक परमात्मामें ही  लगाये।

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 27 script:
praśhānta-manasaṁ hyenaṁ yoginaṁ sukham uttamam
upaiti śhānta-rajasaṁ brahma-bhūtam akalmaṣham

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।6.27।। जिसका मन प्रशान्त है, जो पापरहित (अकल्मषम्) है और जिसका रजोगुण (विक्षेप) शांत हुआ है, ऐसे ब्रह्मरूप हुए इस योगी को उत्तम सुख प्राप्त होता है।।
 

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 28 script:
yuñjann evaṁ sadātmānaṁ yogī vigata-kalmaṣhaḥ
sukhena brahma-sansparśham atyantaṁ sukham aśhnute

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।6.28।। इस प्रकार मन को सदा आत्मा में स्थिर करने का योग करने वाला पापरहित योगी सुखपूर्वक ब्रह्मसंस्पर्श का परम सुख प्राप्त करता है।।

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 29 script:
sarva-bhūta-stham ātmānaṁ sarva-bhūtāni chātmani
īkṣhate yoga-yuktātmā sarvatra sama-darśhanaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: With the mind harmonized by Yoga, he sees the Self abiding in all beings and all beings in the Self; he sees the same everywhere.

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 30 script:
yo māṁ paśhyati sarvatra sarvaṁ cha mayi paśhyati
tasyāhaṁ na praṇaśhyāmi sa cha me na praṇaśhyati

This is the meaning of the above verse: He who sees Me in everything and everything in Me, I shall never forsake him, nor shall he lose Me.

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 31 script:
sarva-bhūta-sthitaṁ yo māṁ bhajatyekatvam āsthitaḥ
sarvathā vartamāno ’pi sa yogī mayi vartate

This is the meaning of the above verse: The sage who realizes the unity of life and who worships Me in all beings, lives in Me, no matter what their lot may be.

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 32 script:
ātmaupamyena sarvatra samaṁ paśhyati yo ’rjuna
sukhaṁ vā yadi vā duḥkhaṁ sa yogī paramo mataḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: O Arjuna, that yogi is considered the best who judges what is happiness and sorrow in all beings by the same standard as they would apply to themselves.

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 33 script:
arjuna uvācha
yo ’yaṁ yogas tvayā proktaḥ sāmyena madhusūdana
etasyāhaṁ na paśhyāmi chañchalatvāt sthitiṁ sthirām

This is the meaning of the above verse: Arjuna said, "O Madhusudana (Krsna), this Yoga that You have spoken of as sameness, I do not see its steady continuance due to the restlessness of the mind."

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 34 script:
chañchalaṁ hi manaḥ kṛiṣhṇa pramāthi balavad dṛiḍham
tasyāhaṁ nigrahaṁ manye vāyor iva su-duṣhkaram

This is the meaning of the above verse: O Krsna! The mind is indeed unsteady, destructive, strong, and obstinate; I believe it is very difficult to control it, just as it is to control the wind.

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 35 script:
śhrī bhagavān uvācha
asanśhayaṁ mahā-bāho mano durnigrahaṁ chalam
abhyāsena tu kaunteya vairāgyeṇa cha gṛihyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: The Bhagavat said, O mighty-armed one! No doubt, the mind is unsteady and hard to control. But it can be controlled through practice and an attitude of desirelessness, O son of Kunti!

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 36 script:
asaṅyatātmanā yogo duṣhprāpa iti me matiḥ
vaśhyātmanā tu yatatā śhakyo ’vāptum upāyataḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: I think Yoga is hard to be attained by one with an uncontrolled self, but the self-controlled and striving one can attain it by the appropriate means.

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 37 script:
arjuna uvācha
ayatiḥ śhraddhayopeto yogāch chalita-mānasaḥ
aprāpya yoga-sansiddhiṁ kāṅ gatiṁ kṛiṣhṇa gachchhati

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।6.37।। अर्जुन ने कहा -- हे कृष्ण ! जिसका मन योग से चलायमान हो गया है, ऐसा अपूर्ण प्रयत्न वाला (अयति) श्रद्धायुक्त पुरुष योग की सिद्धि को न प्राप्त होकर किस गति को प्राप्त होता है?
 

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 38 script:
kachchin nobhaya-vibhraṣhṭaśh chhinnābhram iva naśhyati
apratiṣhṭho mahā-bāho vimūḍho brahmaṇaḥ pathi

This is the meaning of the above verse: Without any support, confused in the path leading to the Brahman, and thus having fallen from both, does he not perish, O mighty-armed one, like a rent cloud?

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 39 script:
etan me sanśhayaṁ kṛiṣhṇa chhettum arhasyaśheṣhataḥ
tvad-anyaḥ sanśhayasyāsya chhettā na hyupapadyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: O Krishna, please completely dispel this doubt of mine, for it is not possible for anyone but You to do so.

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 40 script:
śhrī bhagavān uvācha
pārtha naiveha nāmutra vināśhas tasya vidyate
na hi kalyāṇa-kṛit kaśhchid durgatiṁ tāta gachchhati

This is the meaning of the above verse: Lord Shri Krishna replied: My beloved child! There is no destruction for him, either in this world or the next. No evil fate awaits him who treads the path of righteousness.

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 41 script:
prāpya puṇya-kṛitāṁ lokān uṣhitvā śhāśhvatīḥ samāḥ
śhuchīnāṁ śhrīmatāṁ gehe yoga-bhraṣhṭo’bhijāyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: Having reached the worlds where the righteous dwell, and having remained there for many years, he who has strayed from the path of spirituality will be born again into the family of the pure, benevolent, and prosperous.

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 42 script:
atha vā yoginām eva kule bhavati dhīmatām
etad dhi durlabhataraṁ loke janma yad īdṛiśham

This is the meaning of the above verse: Or, he is born nowhere else but in the family of the intelligent men of Yoga; for, this birth is more difficult to obtain in the world.

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 43 script:
tatra taṁ buddhi-sanyogaṁ labhate paurva-dehikam
yatate cha tato bhūyaḥ sansiddhau kuru-nandana

This is the meaning of the above verse: There he becomes endowed with the wisdom acquired in the previous body, and he strives even more than before for perfection, O scion of the Kuru dynasty.

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 44 script:
pūrvābhyāsena tenaiva hriyate hyavaśho ’pi saḥ
jijñāsur api yogasya śhabda-brahmātivartate

This is the meaning of the above verse: By that same former practice, he is borne on in spite of himself. Even he who merely wishes to know Yoga goes beyond the Brahmanic word.

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 45 script:
prayatnād yatamānas tu yogī sanśhuddha-kilbiṣhaḥ
aneka-janma-sansiddhas tato yāti parāṁ gatim

This is the meaning of the above verse: But the Yogi who strives assiduously, purified of sins and perfected gradually over many births, reaches the highest goal.

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 46 script:
tapasvibhyo ’dhiko yogī
jñānibhyo ’pi mato ’dhikaḥ
karmibhyaśh chādhiko yogī
tasmād yogī bhavārjuna

This is the meaning of the above verse: A yogi is higher than those of austerity; they are considered higher even than those of knowledge. The yogi is also higher than those of action. Therefore, O Arjuna, become a yogi.

This is Chapter 6 Shloka 47 script:
yoginām api sarveṣhāṁ mad-gatenāntar-ātmanā
śhraddhāvān bhajate yo māṁ sa me yuktatamo mataḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Even among all the yogis, he who adores Me with his mind fixed on Me and with faith is considered by Me to be the best of the yogis.

