This is the script of the Jnana Karma Sanyasa Yoga. It is the chapter number 4. It has 42 shlokas. The name means Path of Knowledge and the Disciplines of Action.

The fourth chapter of the Bhagavad Gita is "Jnana Karma Sanyasa Yoga". In this chapter, Krishna glorifies the Karma Yoga and imparts the Transcendental Knowledge (the knowledge of the soul and the Ultimate Truth) to Arjuna. He reveals the reason behind his appearance in this material world. He reveals that even though he is eternal, he reincarnates time after time to re-establish dharma and peace on this Earth. His births and activities are eternal and are never contaminated by material flaws. Those persons who know and understand this Truth engage in his devotion with full faith and eventually attain Him. They do not have to take birth in this world again.

This is Chapter 4 Shloka 1 script:
śhrī bhagavān uvācha
imaṁ vivasvate yogaṁ proktavān aham avyayam
vivasvān manave prāha manur ikṣhvākave ’bravīt

This is the meaning of the above verse: The Blessed Lord said, "I taught this imperishable Yoga to Vivasvan; he then told it to Manu; Manu proclaimed it to Ikshvaku.

This is Chapter 4 Shloka 2 script:
evaṁ paramparā-prāptam imaṁ rājarṣhayo viduḥ
sa kāleneha mahatā yogo naṣhṭaḥ parantapa


This is the meaning of the above verse: The king-sages knew this yoga, which was received in regular succession. That yoga, O destroyer of foes, is now lost due to a long lapse of time.

This is Chapter 4 Shloka 3 script:
sa evāyaṁ mayā te ’dya yogaḥ proktaḥ purātanaḥ
bhakto ’si me sakhā cheti rahasyaṁ hyetad uttamam


This is the meaning of the above verse: That ancient Yoga itself, which is this, has been taught to you by Me today, considering you to be My devotee and friend, for this Yoga is a profound secret.

This is Chapter 4 Shloka 4 script:
arjuna uvācha
aparaṁ bhavato janma paraṁ janma vivasvataḥ
katham etad vijānīyāṁ tvam ādau proktavān iti


This is the meaning of the above verse: Arjuna said, "Your birth was later, whereas Vivasvan's birth was earlier. How am I to understand that You instructed him in the beginning?"

This is Chapter 4 Shloka 5 script:
śhrī bhagavān uvācha
bahūni me vyatītāni janmāni tava chārjuna
tānyahaṁ veda sarvāṇi na tvaṁ vettha parantapa


This is the meaning of the above verse: The Blessed Lord said, "O Arjuna, many lives of Mine have passed, and so have yours. I know them all, but you do not know, O scorcher of enemies!"

This is Chapter 4 Shloka 6 script:
ajo ’pi sannavyayātmā bhūtānām īśhvaro ’pi san
prakṛitiṁ svām adhiṣhṭhāya sambhavāmyātma-māyayā


This is the meaning of the above verse: Though I am birthless and undecaying by nature, and the Lord of beings, yet by subjugating My Prakriti, I take birth through My own Maya.

This is Chapter 4 Shloka 7 script:
yadā yadā hi dharmasya glānir bhavati bhārata
abhyutthānam adharmasya tadātmānaṁ sṛijāmyaham


This is the meaning of the above verse: O scion of the Bharata dynasty, whenever there is a decline in virtue and an increase in vice, then I manifest Myself.

This is Chapter 4 Shloka 8 script:
paritrāṇāya sādhūnāṁ vināśhāya cha duṣhkṛitām
dharma-sansthāpanārthāya sambhavāmi yuge yuge


This is the meaning of the above verse: For the protection of the pious, the destruction of the evil-doers, and the establishment of virtue, I manifest myself in every age.

This is Chapter 4 Shloka 9 script:
janma karma cha me divyam evaṁ yo vetti tattvataḥ
tyaktvā dehaṁ punar janma naiti mām eti so ’rjuna


This is the meaning of the above verse: He who thus knows truly the divine birth and actions of Mine does not get rebirth after casting off the body. He attains Me, O Arjuna.

This is Chapter 4 Shloka 10 script:
vīta-rāga-bhaya-krodhā man-mayā mām upāśhritāḥ
bahavo jñāna-tapasā pūtā mad-bhāvam āgatāḥ


This is the meaning of the above verse: Freed from desire, fear, and wrath, absorbed in Me, depending upon Me, purified by the austerity of knowledge, many have attained My state.

This is Chapter 4 Shloka 11 script:
ye yathā māṁ prapadyante tāns tathaiva bhajāmyaham
mama vartmānuvartante manuṣhyāḥ pārtha sarvaśhaḥ


This is the meaning of the above verse: Whoever resorts to Me in any manner, I favor them in the same manner; men experience Me alone in different ways, O Arjuna.

This is Chapter 4 Shloka 12 script:
kāṅkṣhantaḥ karmaṇāṁ siddhiṁ yajanta iha devatāḥ
kṣhipraṁ hi mānuṣhe loke siddhir bhavati karmajā


This is the meaning of the above verse: Those who desire the fruits of their ritualistic acts, sacrifice to the gods here; for, success quickly accrues in the world of men.

This is Chapter 4 Shloka 13 script:
chātur-varṇyaṁ mayā sṛiṣhṭaṁ guṇa-karma-vibhāgaśhaḥ
tasya kartāram api māṁ viddhyakartāram avyayam


This is the meaning of the above verse: The fourfold caste has been created by Me according to the differentiation of Guna and Karma; though I am the author of it, know Me as non-doer and immutable.

This is Chapter 4 Shloka 14 script:
na māṁ karmāṇi limpanti na me karma-phale spṛihā
iti māṁ yo ’bhijānāti karmabhir na sa badhyate


This is the meaning of the above verse: Works cannot contaminate Me. There is no desire for the fruits of actions in Me. He who understands this is not bound by actions.

This is Chapter 4 Shloka 15 script:
evaṁ jñātvā kṛitaṁ karma pūrvair api mumukṣhubhiḥ
kuru karmaiva tasmāttvaṁ pūrvaiḥ pūrvataraṁ kṛitam


This is the meaning of the above verse: Knowing thus, even ancient seekers of liberation did their work. Therefore, do your work only as the ancients did in olden times.

This is Chapter 4 Shloka 16 script:
kiṁ karma kim akarmeti kavayo ’pyatra mohitāḥ
tat te karma pravakṣhyāmi yaj jñātvā mokṣhyase ’śhubhāt


This is the meaning of the above verse: What is action? What is non-action? Even the wise are puzzled in respect of these. I shall declare to you that kind of action, knowing which you will be freed from evil.

This is Chapter 4 Shloka 17 script:
karmaṇo hyapi boddhavyaṁ boddhavyaṁ cha vikarmaṇaḥ
akarmaṇaśh cha boddhavyaṁ gahanā karmaṇo gatiḥ


This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।4.17।। कर्म का (स्वरूप) जानना चाहिये और विकर्म का (स्वरूप) भी जानना चाहिये ; (बोद्धव्यम्) तथा अकर्म का भी (स्वरूप) जानना चाहिये (क्योंकि) कर्म की गति गहन है।।
 

This is Chapter 4 Shloka 18 script:
karmaṇyakarma yaḥ paśhyed akarmaṇi cha karma yaḥ
sa buddhimān manuṣhyeṣhu sa yuktaḥ kṛitsna-karma-kṛit


This is the meaning of the above verse: He who finds inaction in action, and action in inaction, is the wise one [possessed of the knowledge of Brahman] among men; they are engaged in yoga and are performers of all actions!

This is Chapter 4 Shloka 19 script:
yasya sarve samārambhāḥ kāma-saṅkalpa-varjitāḥ
jñānāgni-dagdha-karmāṇaṁ tam āhuḥ paṇḍitaṁ budhāḥ


This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।4.19।। जिसके समस्त कार्य कामना और संकल्प से रहित हैं,  ऐसे उस ज्ञानरूप अग्नि के द्वारा भस्म हुये कर्मों वाले पुरुष को ज्ञानीजन पण्डित कहते हैं।।
 

This is Chapter 4 Shloka 20 script:
tyaktvā karma-phalāsaṅgaṁ nitya-tṛipto nirāśhrayaḥ
karmaṇyabhipravṛitto ’pi naiva kiñchit karoti saḥ


This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।4.20।। जो पुरुष,  कर्मफलासक्ति को त्यागकर,  नित्यतृप्त और सब आश्रयों से रहित है वह कर्म में प्रवृत्त होते हुए भी (वास्तव में) कुछ भी नहीं करता है।।
 

This is Chapter 4 Shloka 21 script:
nirāśhīr yata-chittātmā tyakta-sarva-parigrahaḥ
śhārīraṁ kevalaṁ karma kurvan nāpnoti kilbiṣham


This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।4.21।। जो आशा रहित है तथा जिसने चित्त और आत्मा (शरीर) को संयमित किया है,  जिसने सब परिग्रहों का त्याग किया है,  ऐसा पुरुष शारीरिक कर्म करते हुए भी पाप को नहीं प्राप्त होता है।।
 

This is Chapter 4 Shloka 22 script:
yadṛichchhā-lābha-santuṣhṭo dvandvātīto vimatsaraḥ
samaḥ siddhāvasiddhau cha kṛitvāpi na nibadhyate


This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।4.22।। यदृच्छया (अपने आप) जो कुछ प्राप्त हो उसमें ही सन्तुष्ट रहने वाला,  द्वन्द्वों से अतीत तथा मत्सर से रहित,  सिद्धि व असिद्धि में समभाव वाला पुरुष कर्म करके भी नहीं बन्धता है।।
 

This is Chapter 4 Shloka 23 script:
gata-saṅgasya muktasya jñānāvasthita-chetasaḥ
yajñāyācharataḥ karma samagraṁ pravilīyate


This is the meaning of the above verse: He who is without attachment, free, his mind centered in wisdom, and his actions done as a sacrifice, leave no trace behind.

This is Chapter 4 Shloka 24 script:
brahmārpaṇaṁ brahma havir brahmāgnau brahmaṇā hutam
brahmaiva tena gantavyaṁ brahma-karma-samādhinā


This is the meaning of the above verse: Brahman is the oblation; Brahman is the melted butter (ghee); by Brahman is the oblation poured into the fire of Brahman; Brahman indeed shall be attained by one who always sees Brahman in action.

This is Chapter 4 Shloka 25 script:
daivam evāpare yajñaṁ yoginaḥ paryupāsate
brahmāgnāvapare yajñaṁ yajñenaivopajuhvati


This is the meaning of the above verse: Some sages sacrifice to the powers, while others offer themselves on the altar of the eternal.

This is Chapter 4 Shloka 26 script:
śhrotrādīnīndriyāṇyanye sanyamāgniṣhu juhvati
śhabdādīn viṣhayānanya indriyāgniṣhu juhvati


This is the meaning of the above verse: Some sacrifice their physical senses in the fire of self-control; others offer up their contact with external objects in the sacrificial fire of their senses.

This is Chapter 4 Shloka 27 script:
sarvāṇīndriya-karmāṇi prāṇa-karmāṇi chāpare
ātma-sanyama-yogāgnau juhvati jñāna-dīpite


This is the meaning of the above verse: Some others offer all the actions of their sense-organs and the actions of their life-breath into the fire of the Yoga of self-control, ignited by wisdom.

This is Chapter 4 Shloka 28 script:
dravya-yajñās tapo-yajñā yoga-yajñās tathāpare
swādhyāya-jñāna-yajñāśh cha yatayaḥ sanśhita-vratāḥ


This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।4.28।। कुछ (साधक) द्रव्ययज्ञ, तपयज्ञ और योगयज्ञ करने वाले होते हैं;  और दूसरे कठिन व्रत करने वाले स्वाध्याय और ज्ञानयज्ञ करने वाले योगीजन होते हैं।।
 

This is Chapter 4 Shloka 29 script:
apāne juhvati prāṇaṁ prāṇe ’pānaṁ tathāpare
prāṇāpāna-gatī ruddhvā prāṇāyāma-parāyaṇāḥ
 apare niyatāhārāḥ prāṇān prāṇeṣhu juhvati
sarve ’pyete yajña-vido yajña-kṣhapita-kalmaṣhāḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Constantly practicing control of the vital forces by stopping the movements of the outgoing and incoming breaths, some offer as a sacrifice the outgoing breath into the incoming breath; while still others, the incoming breath into the outgoing breath.

This is Chapter 4 Shloka 30 script:
apare niyatāhārāḥ prāṇān  prāṇeṣu juhvati

sarve py 'ete yajña-vido yajña-kṣapita-kalmaṣāḥ 

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।4.30।। दूसरे नियमित आहार करने वाले (साधक जन) प्राणों को प्राणों में हवन करते हैं। ये सभी यज्ञ को जानने वाले हैं, जिनके पाप यज्ञ के द्वारा नष्ट हो चुके हैं।।
 

This is Chapter 4 Shloka 31 script:
yajña-śhiṣhṭāmṛita-bhujo yānti brahma sanātanam
nāyaṁ loko ’styayajñasya kuto ’nyaḥ kuru-sattama


This is the meaning of the above verse: This world is not for one who makes no sacrifice; how then for the other, O Arjuna?

This is Chapter 4 Shloka 32 script:
evaṁ bahu-vidhā yajñā vitatā brahmaṇo mukhe
karma-jān viddhi tān sarvān evaṁ jñātvā vimokṣhyase


This is the meaning of the above verse: Thus, many forms of sacrifices have been spread out as means of reaching Brahman (individual self in its own nature). Know that all of these are born of actions. Knowing thus, you will be free.

This is Chapter 4 Shloka 33 script:
śhreyān dravya-mayād yajñāj jñāna-yajñaḥ parantapa
sarvaṁ karmākhilaṁ pārtha jñāne parisamāpyate


This is the meaning of the above verse: The sacrifice of knowledge is superior to material sacrifice. O Arjuna, all actions and everything else culminate in knowledge.

This is Chapter 4 Shloka 34 script:
tad viddhi praṇipātena paripraśhnena sevayā
upadekṣhyanti te jñānaṁ jñāninas tattva-darśhinaḥ


This is the meaning of the above verse: Know that the wise ones who have realized the Truth will impart the Knowledge to you through prostration, inquiry, and service.

This is Chapter 4 Shloka 35 script:
yaj jñātvā na punar moham evaṁ yāsyasi pāṇḍava
yena bhūtānyaśheṣheṇa drakṣhyasyātmanyatho mayi


This is the meaning of the above verse: Knowing that thou shalt not, O Arjuna, again be deluded like this; and by that thou shalt see all beings in thyself and also in me.

This is Chapter 4 Shloka 36 script:
api ched asi pāpebhyaḥ sarvebhyaḥ pāpa-kṛit-tamaḥ
sarvaṁ jñāna-plavenaiva vṛijinaṁ santariṣhyasi


This is the meaning of the above verse: Even if you are the worst sinner among all sinners, you can still cross over all wickedness with the raft of Knowledge alone.

This is Chapter 4 Shloka 37 script:
yathaidhānsi samiddho ’gnir bhasma-sāt kurute ’rjuna
jñānāgniḥ sarva-karmāṇi bhasma-sāt kurute tathā


This is the meaning of the above verse: O Arjuna, just as a blazing fire reduces wood to ashes, similarly the fire of Knowledge reduces all actions to ashes.

This is Chapter 4 Shloka 38 script:
na hi jñānena sadṛiśhaṁ pavitramiha vidyate
tatsvayaṁ yogasansiddhaḥ kālenātmani vindati


This is the meaning of the above verse: Indeed, there is nothing purifying here comparable to Knowledge. One who has become perfected over time through yoga, realizes That in their own heart.

This is Chapter 4 Shloka 39 script:
śhraddhāvān labhate jñānaṁ tat-paraḥ sanyatendriyaḥ
jñānaṁ labdhvā parāṁ śhāntim achireṇādhigachchhati


This is the meaning of the above verse: The one who is full of faith, devoted to it, and has subdued their senses obtains this knowledge; and upon obtaining the knowledge, they attain the supreme peace immediately.

This is Chapter 4 Shloka 40 script:
ajñaśh chāśhraddadhānaśh cha sanśhayātmā vinaśhyati
nāyaṁ loko ’sti na paro na sukhaṁ sanśhayātmanaḥ


This is the meaning of the above verse: The ignorant, the faithless, and the doubting self go to destruction; there is neither this world nor the other, nor happiness for the doubting one.

This is Chapter 4 Shloka 41 script:
yoga-sannyasta-karmāṇaṁ jñāna-sañchhinna-sanśhayam
ātmavantaṁ na karmāṇi nibadhnanti dhanañjaya


This is the meaning of the above verse: He who has renounced actions through Yoga, whose doubts have been dispelled by knowledge, and who is self-possessed—such a one is not bound by actions, O Arjuna.

This is Chapter 4 Shloka 42 script:
tasmād ajñāna-sambhūtaṁ hṛit-sthaṁ jñānāsinātmanaḥ
chhittvainaṁ sanśhayaṁ yogam ātiṣhṭhottiṣhṭha bhārata


This is the meaning of the above verse: Therefore, with the sword of knowledge (of the Self), cut asunder the doubt of the self, born of ignorance, residing in your heart, and take refuge in Yoga. Arise, O Arjuna!

