This is the script of the Gyaan Vigyana Yoga. It is the chapter number 7. It has 30 shlokas. The name means Self-Knowledge and Enlightenment.

The seventh chapter of the Bhagavad Gita is "Gyaan Vigyana Yoga ". In this chapter, Krishna reveals that he is the Supreme Truth, the principal cause and the sustaining force of everything. He reveals his illusionary energy in this material world called Maya, which is very difficult to overcome but those who surrender their minds unto Him attain Him easily. He also describes the four types of people who surrender to Him in devotion and the four kinds that don't. Krishna confirms that He is the Ultimate Reality and those who realize this Truth reach the pinnacle of spiritual realization and unite with the Lord.

This is Chapter 7 Shloka 1 script:
śhrī bhagavān uvācha
mayyāsakta-manāḥ pārtha yogaṁ yuñjan mad-āśhrayaḥ
asanśhayaṁ samagraṁ māṁ yathā jñāsyasi tach chhṛiṇu

This is the meaning of the above verse: The Bhagavat said, "O son of Prtha, hear from Me how, with your mind attached to Me, practicing yoga, and taking refuge in Me, you shall understand Me fully, without any doubt."

This is Chapter 7 Shloka 2 script:
jñānaṁ te ’haṁ sa-vijñānam idaṁ vakṣhyāmyaśheṣhataḥ
yaj jñātvā neha bhūyo ’nyaj jñātavyam-avaśhiṣhyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।7.2।। तेरे लिये मैं विज्ञानसहित ज्ञान सम्पूर्णतासे कहूँगा, जिसको जाननेके बाद फिर यहाँ कुछ भी जानना बाकी नहीं रहेगा। 

This is Chapter 7 Shloka 3 script:
manuṣhyāṇāṁ sahasreṣhu kaśhchid yatati siddhaye
yatatām api siddhānāṁ kaśhchin māṁ vetti tattvataḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Among thousands of men, one may perchance strive for perfection; even among those successful strivers, only one may perchance know Me in essence.

This is Chapter 7 Shloka 4 script:
bhūmir-āpo ’nalo vāyuḥ khaṁ mano buddhir eva cha
ahankāra itīyaṁ me bhinnā prakṛitir aṣhṭadhā

This is the meaning of the above verse: This Prakrti of Mine is divided eightfold thus: earth, water, fire, air, space, mind, intellect, and egoism.

This is Chapter 7 Shloka 5 script:
apareyam itas tvanyāṁ prakṛitiṁ viddhi me parām
jīva-bhūtāṁ mahā-bāho yayedaṁ dhāryate jagat

This is the meaning of the above verse: O mighty-armed one, this is the inferior Prakrti. Know the other Prakrti of Mine, which is however higher than this, which has taken the form of individual souls, and by which this world is upheld.

This is Chapter 7 Shloka 6 script:
etad-yonīni bhūtāni sarvāṇītyupadhāraya
ahaṁ kṛitsnasya jagataḥ prabhavaḥ pralayas tathā

This is the meaning of the above verse: Know that these two are the womb of all beings; thus, I am the source and dissolution of the whole universe.

This is Chapter 7 Shloka 7 script:
mattaḥ parataraṁ nānyat kiñchid asti dhanañjaya
mayi sarvam idaṁ protaṁ sūtre maṇi-gaṇā iva

This is the meaning of the above verse: There is nothing higher than Me, O Arjuna. All this is strung on Me, like clusters of gems on a string.

This is Chapter 7 Shloka 8 script:
raso ’ham apsu kaunteya prabhāsmi śhaśhi-sūryayoḥ
praṇavaḥ sarva-vedeṣhu śhabdaḥ khe pauruṣhaṁ nṛiṣhu

This is the meaning of the above verse: O son of Kunti, I am the taste of water, I am the effulgence of the moon and the sun; the letter 'Om' in all the Vedas, the sound in space, and manhood in men.

This is Chapter 7 Shloka 9 script:
puṇyo gandhaḥ pṛithivyāṁ cha tejaśh chāsmi vibhāvasau
jīvanaṁ sarva-bhūteṣhu tapaśh chāsmi tapasviṣhu

This is the meaning of the above verse: I am also the sweet fragrance in the earth; I am the brilliance in the fire, and the life in all beings; and I am the austerity of the ascetics.

This is Chapter 7 Shloka 10 script:
bījaṁ māṁ sarva-bhūtānāṁ viddhi pārtha sanātanam
buddhir buddhimatām asmi tejas tejasvinām aham

This is the meaning of the above verse: O Partha, know Me to be the eternal seed of all beings. I am the intellect of the intelligent, and I am the courage of the courageous.

This is Chapter 7 Shloka 11 script:
balaṁ balavatāṁ chāhaṁ kāma-rāga-vivarjitam
dharmāviruddho bhūteṣhu kāmo ’smi bharatarṣhabha

This is the meaning of the above verse: Of the strong, I am the strength that is free from desire and attachment. O best of the Bharatas, in all beings, I am the desire that is not contrary to dharma.

This is Chapter 7 Shloka 12 script:
ye chaiva sāttvikā bhāvā rājasās tāmasāśh cha ye
matta eveti tān viddhi na tvahaṁ teṣhu te mayi

This is the meaning of the above verse: Whatever beings (and objects) that are pure, active, and inert, know that they proceed from Me. They are in Me, yet I am not in them.

This is Chapter 7 Shloka 13 script:
tribhir guṇa-mayair bhāvair ebhiḥ sarvam idaṁ jagat
mohitaṁ nābhijānāti māmebhyaḥ param avyayam

This is the meaning of the above verse: Deluded by these Natures, composed of the three qualities of Nature, all this world does not know Me as distinct from them and immutable.

This is Chapter 7 Shloka 14 script:
daivī hyeṣhā guṇa-mayī mama māyā duratyayā
mām eva ye prapadyante māyām etāṁ taranti te

This is the meaning of the above verse: Since this divine Maya of Mine, which is constituted by the gunas, is difficult to cross over, those who take refuge in Me alone can transcend this Maya.

This is Chapter 7 Shloka 15 script:
na māṁ duṣhkṛitino mūḍhāḥ prapadyante narādhamāḥ
māyayāpahṛita-jñānā āsuraṁ bhāvam āśhritāḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: The foolish evildoers, who are the most depraved among men, who are deprived of their wisdom by Maya, and who resort to demonic ways, do not take refuge in Me.

This is Chapter 7 Shloka 16 script:
chatur-vidhā bhajante māṁ janāḥ sukṛitino ’rjuna
ārto jijñāsur arthārthī jñānī cha bharatarṣhabha

This is the meaning of the above verse: O Arjuna, foremost of the Bharata dynasty, four classes of people of virtuous deeds adore Me: the afflicted, the seekers of Knowledge, the seekers of wealth, and the man of Knowledge.

This is Chapter 7 Shloka 17 script:
teṣhāṁ jñānī nitya-yukta eka-bhaktir viśhiṣhyate
priyo hi jñānino ’tyartham ahaṁ sa cha mama priyaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Of them, the wise who are ever steadfast and devoted to the One, excel; for I am exceedingly dear to the wise, and they are dear to Me.

This is Chapter 7 Shloka 18 script:
udārāḥ sarva evaite jñānī tvātmaiva me matam
āsthitaḥ sa hi yuktātmā mām evānuttamāṁ gatim

This is the meaning of the above verse: Indeed, all these are noble; however, I consider the wise man as My very Self; for, he is steadfast in mind and established in Me alone as the supreme goal.

This is Chapter 7 Shloka 19 script:
bahūnāṁ janmanām ante jñānavān māṁ prapadyate
vāsudevaḥ sarvam iti sa mahātmā su-durlabhaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: At the end of many births, the man of knowledge attains Me, realizing that Vasudeva is all. Such a high-souled one is very rare.

This is Chapter 7 Shloka 20 script:
kāmais tais tair hṛita-jñānāḥ prapadyante ’nya-devatāḥ
taṁ taṁ niyamam āsthāya prakṛityā niyatāḥ svayā

This is the meaning of the above verse: Those whose wisdom has been taken away by this or that desire, go to other gods, following this or that rite, led by their own nature.

This is Chapter 7 Shloka 21 script:
yo yo yāṁ yāṁ tanuṁ bhaktaḥ śhraddhayārchitum ichchhati
tasya tasyāchalāṁ śhraddhāṁ tām eva vidadhāmyaham

This is the meaning of the above verse: Whichever devotee seeks to worship with faith whatever form, I make their faith steadfast.

This is Chapter 7 Shloka 22 script:
sa tayā śhraddhayā yuktas tasyārādhanam īhate
labhate cha tataḥ kāmān mayaiva vihitān hi tān

This is the meaning of the above verse: Being imbued with that faith, that person engages in worshipping that form, and they get those very desired results as dispensed by Me alone.

This is Chapter 7 Shloka 23 script:
antavat tu phalaṁ teṣhāṁ tad bhavatyalpa-medhasām
devān deva-yajo yānti mad-bhaktā yānti mām api

This is the meaning of the above verse: The result of those who are of poor intellect is indeed limited. The worshippers of gods go to the gods, while My devotees go to Me alone.

This is Chapter 7 Shloka 24 script:
avyaktaṁ vyaktim āpannaṁ manyante mām abuddhayaḥ
paraṁ bhāvam ajānanto mamāvyayam anuttamam

This is the meaning of the above verse: The foolish think of Me, the Unmanifest, as having manifestation, not knowing My higher, immutable, and most excellent nature.

This is Chapter 7 Shloka 25 script:
nāhaṁ prakāśhaḥ sarvasya yoga-māyā-samāvṛitaḥ
mūḍho ’yaṁ nābhijānāti loko mām ajam avyayam

This is the meaning of the above verse: Veiled by my Maya, I am not manifest to all; this deluded world does not recognize me as the unborn and immutable.

This is Chapter 7 Shloka 26 script:
vedāhaṁ samatītāni vartamānāni chārjuna
bhaviṣhyāṇi cha bhūtāni māṁ tu veda na kaśhchana

This is the meaning of the above verse: I know, O Arjuna, all beings in the past, the present, and the future; but they do not know Me.

This is Chapter 7 Shloka 27 script:
ichchhā-dveṣha-samutthena dvandva-mohena bhārata
sarva-bhūtāni sammohaṁ sarge yānti parantapa

This is the meaning of the above verse: O brave Arjuna! Man lives in a fantastical world, deceived by the glamour of opposing sensations, infatuated by desire and aversion.

This is Chapter 7 Shloka 28 script:
yeṣhāṁ tvanta-gataṁ pāpaṁ janānāṁ puṇya-karmaṇām
te dvandva-moha-nirmuktā bhajante māṁ dṛiḍha-vratāḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: But those who act righteously, in whom sin has been destroyed, who are free from the infatuation of conflicting emotions, they worship Me with a firm resolve.

This is Chapter 7 Shloka 29 script:
jarā-maraṇa-mokṣhāya mām āśhritya yatanti ye
te brahma tadviduḥ kṛitsnam adhyātmaṁ karma chākhilam

This is the meaning of the above verse: Those who strive by resorting to Me for becoming free from old age and death, they know Brahman, the individual Self, and all about actions. [They know Brahman as being all the individual entities and all actions. This verse prescribes meditation on the qualified Brahman for aspirants of the middle class. Verses beginning with the 14th speak about the realization of the unqualified Brahman by aspirants of the highest class.]

This is Chapter 7 Shloka 30 script:
sādhibhūtādhidaivaṁ māṁ sādhiyajñaṁ cha ye viduḥ
prayāṇa-kāle ’pi cha māṁ te vidur yukta-chetasaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Those who know Me with the Adhibhuta (pertaining to the elements), Adhidaiva (pertaining to the gods), and the Adhiyajna (pertaining to the sacrifice) know Me even at the time of death, remaining steadfast in mind.

