This is the script of the Vishwaroopa Darshana Yoga. It is the chapter number 11. It has 55 shlokas. The name means Yoga through Beholding the Cosmic Form of God.

The eleventh chapter of the Bhagavad Gita is "Vishwaroopa Darshana Yoga". In this chapter, Arjuna requests Krishna to reveal His Universal Cosmic Form that encompasses all the universes, the entire existence. Arjuna is granted divine vision to be able to see the entirety of creation in the body of the Supreme Lord Krishna.

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 1 script:
arjuna uvācha
mad-anugrahāya paramaṁ guhyam adhyātma-sanjñitam
yat tvayoktaṁ vachas tena moho ’yaṁ vigato mama

This is the meaning of the above verse: Arjuna said, By this explanation of the highest secret concerning the Self which Thou hast spoken, for the sake of blessing me, my delusion has been dispelled.

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 2 script:
bhavāpyayau hi bhūtānāṁ śhrutau vistaraśho mayā
tvattaḥ kamala-patrākṣha māhātmyam api chāvyayam

This is the meaning of the above verse: I have listened in detail from You, O Lotus-eyed One, about the origin and dissolution of beings, as well as Your inexhaustible greatness.

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 3 script:
evam etad yathāttha tvam ātmānaṁ parameśhvara
draṣhṭum ichchhāmi te rūpam aiśhwaraṁ puruṣhottama

This is the meaning of the above verse: As You describe Yourself to be the Supreme Lord, it must be so. O Supreme Self, I desire to behold Your divine form.

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 4 script:
manyase yadi tach chhakyaṁ mayā draṣhṭum iti prabho
yogeśhvara tato me tvaṁ darśhayātmānam avyayam

This is the meaning of the above verse: If you think, O Lord, that it can be seen by me, then, O Lord of Yoga, reveal Yourself fully to me.

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 5 script:
śhrī-bhagavān uvācha
paśhya me pārtha rūpāṇi śhataśho ’tha sahasraśhaḥ
nānā-vidhāni divyāni nānā-varṇākṛitīni cha

This is the meaning of the above verse: The Lord said, "Behold, O Arjuna, My forms, hundreds upon thousands, manifold, divine, varied in hue and shape."

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 6 script:
paśhyādityān vasūn rudrān aśhvinau marutas tathā
bahūny adṛiṣhṭa-pūrvāṇi paśhyāśhcharyāṇi bhārata

This is the meaning of the above verse: Behold, O Arjuna, the Adityas, the Vasus, the Rudras, the two Asvins, and the Maruts—many marvels never seen before.

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 7 script:
ihaika-sthaṁ jagat kṛitsnaṁ paśhyādya sa-charācharam
mama dehe guḍākeśha yach chānyad draṣhṭum ichchhasi

This is the meaning of the above verse: Now, behold, O Arjuna, in this My body, the entire universe centered in one, including the moving and the unmoving, and whatever else you desire to see.

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 8 script:
na tu māṁ śhakyase draṣhṭum anenaiva sva-chakṣhuṣhā
divyaṁ dadāmi te chakṣhuḥ paśhya me yogam aiśhwaram

This is the meaning of the above verse: But you will not be able to see Me with your own eyes. I give you a divine eye, so behold My Lordly Yoga!

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 9 script:
sañjaya uvācha
evam uktvā tato rājan mahā-yogeśhvaro hariḥ
darśhayām āsa pārthāya paramaṁ rūpam aiśhwaram

This is the meaning of the above verse: Sanjaya said, Having thus spoken, O king, the great Lord of Yoga, Hari (Krishna), showed Arjuna His supreme form as the Lord.

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 10 script:
aneka-vaktra-nayanam anekādbhuta-darśhanam
aneka-divyābharaṇaṁ divyānekodyatāyudham

This is the meaning of the above verse: With numerous mouths and eyes, with numerous wondrous sights, with numerous divine adornments, with numerous divine weapons uplifted, such a form He showed.

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 11 script:
divya-mālyāmbara-dharaṁ divya-gandhānulepanam
sarvāśhcharya-mayaṁ devam anantaṁ viśhvato-mukham

This is the meaning of the above verse: Wearing divine garlands and apparel, anointed with divine unguents, the all-wonderful, resplendent Being is endless with faces on all sides.

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 12 script:
divi sūrya-sahasrasya bhaved yugapad utthitā
yadi bhāḥ sadṛiśhī sā syād bhāsas tasya mahātmanaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: If a thousand suns were to rise at once in the sky, the resulting splendour would be like the splendour of that mighty One.

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 13 script:
tatraika-sthaṁ jagat kṛitsnaṁ pravibhaktam anekadhā
apaśhyad deva-devasya śharīre pāṇḍavas tadā

This is the meaning of the above verse: There, in the body of the God of gods, Arjuna then saw the entire universe resting in one, with its myriad of divisions.

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 14 script:
tataḥ sa vismayāviṣhṭo hṛiṣhṭa-romā dhanañjayaḥ
praṇamya śhirasā devaṁ kṛitāñjalir abhāṣhata

This is the meaning of the above verse: Then, Arjuna, filled with wonder and his hair standing on end, bowed his head to the God and spoke with palms joined.

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 15 script:
arjuna uvācha
paśhyāmi devāns tava deva dehe
sarvāns tathā bhūta-viśheṣha-saṅghān
brahmāṇam īśhaṁ kamalāsana-stham
ṛiṣhīnśh cha sarvān uragānśh cha divyān

This is the meaning of the above verse: Arjuna said, "O God, I see all the gods in Your body, as well as hosts of various classes of beings, Brahma the Lord seated on the lotus, all the sages, and the celestial serpents."

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 16 script:
aneka-bāhūdara-vaktra-netraṁ
paśhyāmi tvāṁ sarvato ’nanta-rūpam
nāntaṁ na madhyaṁ na punas tavādiṁ
paśhyāmi viśhveśhvara viśhva-rūpa

This is the meaning of the above verse: I see You with numerous arms, bellies, mouths, and eyes; with infinite forms all around. O Lord of the Universe, O Cosmic Person, I see no limit, no middle, nor beginning!

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 17 script:
kirīṭinaṁ gadinaṁ chakriṇaṁ cha
tejo-rāśhiṁ sarvato dīptimantam
paśhyāmi tvāṁ durnirīkṣhyaṁ samantād
dīptānalārka-dyutim aprameyam

This is the meaning of the above verse: I see You wearing a diadem, wielding a mace, and holding a disc; a mass of brilliance glowing all around, difficult to look at from all sides, possessing the radiance of the blazing fire and sun, and immeasurable.

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 18 script:
tvam akṣharaṁ paramaṁ veditavyaṁ
tvam asya viśhvasya paraṁ nidhānam
tvam avyayaḥ śhāśhvata-dharma-goptā
sanātanas tvaṁ puruṣho mato me

This is the meaning of the above verse: You are the Unchanging, the supreme One to be known; You are the most perfect repository of this Universe. You are the Imperishable, the Protector of the ever-existing religion; You are the eternal Person. This is my belief.

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 19 script:
स्वतेजसा विश्वमिदं तपन्तम् || 19||

This is the meaning of the above verse: I see You without beginning, middle, or end, infinite in power, with endless arms, the sun and moon as Your eyes, the burning fire Your mouth, heating the entire universe with Your radiance.

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 20 script:
dyāv ā-pṛithivyor idam antaraṁ hi
vyāptaṁ tvayaikena diśhaśh cha sarvāḥ
dṛiṣhṭvādbhutaṁ rūpam ugraṁ tavedaṁ
loka-trayaṁ pravyathitaṁ mahātman

This is the meaning of the above verse: This space between the earth and the heavens, and all the quarters, is filled by You alone; having seen this, Your wonderful and terrible form, the three worlds are trembling with fear, O great-souled Being.

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 21 script:
amī hi tvāṁ sura-saṅghā viśhanti
kechid bhītāḥ prāñjalayo gṛiṇanti
svastīty uktvā maharṣhi-siddha-saṅghāḥ
stuvanti tvāṁ stutibhiḥ puṣhkalābhiḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Verily, these hosts of gods enter into Thee; some extol Thee with joined palms in fear, saying, 'May it be well!' Bands of great sages and perfected ones praise Thee with complete hymns.

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 22 script:
rudrādityā vasavo ye cha sādhyā
viśhve ’śhvinau marutaśh choṣhmapāśh cha
gandharva-yakṣhāsura-siddha-saṅghā
vīkṣhante tvāṁ vismitāśh chaiva sarve

This is the meaning of the above verse: The Rudras, Adityas, Vasus, Sadhyas, Visvedevas, the two Asvins, Maruts, the Manus, and the hosts of celestial singers, Yakshas, demons, and the perfected ones, all look upon Thee with great amazement.

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 23 script:
rūpaṁ mahat te bahu-vaktra-netraṁ
mahā-bāho bahu-bāhūru-pādam
bahūdaraṁ bahu-danṣhṭrā-karālaṁ
dṛiṣhṭvā lokāḥ pravyathitās tathāham

This is the meaning of the above verse: Seeing Thy stupendous Form, O Most Mighty One, with its myriad faces, its innumerable eyes, limbs, and terrible jaws, I myself and all the worlds are overwhelmed with awe.

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 24 script:
nabhaḥ-spṛiśhaṁ dīptam aneka-varṇaṁ
vyāttānanaṁ dīpta-viśhāla-netram
dṛiṣhṭvā hi tvāṁ pravyathitāntar-ātmā
dhṛitiṁ na vindāmi śhamaṁ cha viṣhṇo

This is the meaning of the above verse: On seeing Thee, touching the sky, shining in many colors, with mouths wide open, with large fiery eyes, I am terrified at heart and find neither courage nor peace, O Vishnu.

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 25 script:
danṣhṭrā-karālāni cha te mukhāni
dṛiṣhṭvaiva kālānala-sannibhāni
diśho na jāne na labhe cha śharma
prasīda deveśha jagan-nivāsa

This is the meaning of the above verse: Having seen Thy mouths fearful with teeth blazing like the fires of cosmic dissolution, I know not the four quarters, nor do I find peace. Have mercy, O Lord of the gods, O abode of the universe.

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 26 script:
amī cha tvāṁ dhṛitarāśhtrasya putrāḥ
sarve sahaivāvani-pāla-saṅghaiḥ
bhīṣhmo droṇaḥ sūta-putras tathāsau
sahāsmadīyair api yodha-mukhyaiḥ
 vaktrāṇi te tvaramāṇā viśhanti
danṣhṭrā-karālāni bhayānakāni
kechid vilagnā daśhanāntareṣhu
sandṛiśhyante chūrṇitair uttamāṅgaiḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: All the sons of Dhritarashtra, along with the hosts of kings of the earth, Bhishma, Drona, and Karna, as well as the chief among our warriors.

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 27 script:
vaktrāṇi te  tvaramāṇā   viśanti daṁṣṭrā-karālāni    bhayānakāni kecid   vilagnā daśanāntareṣu   sandṛśyante cūrṇitair   uttamāṅgaiḥ
This is the meaning of the above verse: Some hurry into Your mouths with their terrible teeth, fearful to behold. Some are found stuck in the gaps between the teeth, their heads crushed to powder.

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 28 script:
yathā nadīnāṁ bahavo ’mbu-vegāḥ
samudram evābhimukhā dravanti
tathā tavāmī nara-loka-vīrā
viśhanti vaktrāṇy abhivijvalanti

This is the meaning of the above verse: Verily, just as many torrents of rivers flow towards the ocean, so too these heroes in the world of men enter Thy flaming mouths.

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 29 script:
yathā pradīptaṁ jvalanaṁ pataṅgā
viśhanti nāśhāya samṛiddha-vegāḥ
tathaiva nāśhāya viśhanti lokās
tavāpi vaktrāṇi samṛiddha-vegāḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: As moths hasten with increased speed into a blazing fire for destruction, so too do creatures hasten into Your mouths with increased speed for destruction.

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 30 script:
lelihyase grasamānaḥ samantāl
lokān samagrān vadanair jvaladbhiḥ
tejobhir āpūrya jagat samagraṁ
bhāsas tavogrāḥ pratapanti viṣhṇo

This is the meaning of the above verse: Devouring all the worlds on every side with your flaming mouths, you lick them up. Your fiery rays, filling the whole universe with their radiance, scorch it, O Vishnu.

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 31 script:
ākhyāhi me ko bhavān ugra-rūpo
namo ’stu te deva-vara prasīda
vijñātum ichchhāmi bhavantam ādyaṁ
na hi prajānāmi tava pravṛittim

This is the meaning of the above verse: Tell me, who are You with this terrible form? Salutations to You, O Supreme God. Be gracious to me. I desire to know You, the Primal One. I do not know Your activities.

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 32 script:
śhrī-bhagavān uvācha
kālo ’smi loka-kṣhaya-kṛit pravṛiddho
lokān samāhartum iha pravṛittaḥ
ṛite ’pi tvāṁ na bhaviṣhyanti sarve
ye ’vasthitāḥ pratyanīkeṣhu yodhāḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।11.32।। श्रीभगवान् ने कहा -- मैं लोकों का नाश करने वाला प्रवृद्ध काल हूँ। इस समय, मैं इन लोकों का संहार करने में प्रवृत्त हूँ। जो प्रतिपक्षियों की सेना में स्थित योद्धा हैं, वे सब तुम्हारे बिना भी नहीं रहेंगे।।
 

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 33 script:
tasmāt tvam uttiṣhṭha yaśho labhasva
jitvā śhatrūn bhuṅkṣhva rājyaṁ samṛiddham
mayaivaite nihatāḥ pūrvam eva
nimitta-mātraṁ bhava savya-sāchin

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।11.33।। इसलिए तुम उठ खड़े हो जाओ और यश को प्राप्त करो; शत्रुओं को जीतकर समृद्ध राज्य को भोगो। ये सब पहले से ही मेरे द्वारा मारे जा चुके हैं। हे सव्यसाचिन्! तुम केवल निमित्त ही बनो।।
 

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 34 script:
droṇaṁ cha bhīṣhmaṁ cha jayadrathaṁ cha
karṇaṁ tathānyān api yodha-vīrān
mayā hatāṁs tvaṁ jahi mā vyathiṣhṭhā
yudhyasva jetāsi raṇe sapatnān

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।11.34।। द्रोण, भीष्म, जयद्रथ और कर्ण तथा अन्य सभी मेरे द्वारा मारे हुए शूरवीरोंको तुम मारो। तुम व्यथा मत करो और युद्ध करो। युद्धमें तुम निःसन्देह वैरियोंको जीतोगे।

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 35 script:
sañjaya uvācha
etach chhrutvā vachanaṁ keśhavasya
kṛitāñjalir vepamānaḥ kirīṭī
namaskṛitvā bhūya evāha kṛiṣhṇaṁ
sa-gadgadaṁ bhīta-bhītaḥ praṇamya

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।11.35।। संजय ने कहा -- केशव भगवान् के इस वचन को सुनकर मुकुटधारी अर्जुन हाथ जोड़े हुए, कांपता हुआ नमस्कार करके पुन: भयभीत हुआ श्रीकृष्ण के प्रति गद्गद् वाणी से बोला।।
 

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 36 script:
arjuna uvācha
sthāne hṛiṣhīkeśha tava prakīrtyā
jagat prahṛiṣhyaty anurajyate cha
rakṣhānsi bhītāni diśho dravanti
sarve namasyanti cha siddha-saṅghāḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Arjuna said, "O Hrsikesa, it is proper that the world be delighted and attracted by Your praise; that the Raksasas, stricken with fear, run in all directions; and that all the groups of the Siddhas bow down to You."

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 37 script:
kasmāch cha te na nameran mahātman
garīyase brahmaṇo ’py ādi-kartre
ananta deveśha jagan-nivāsa
tvam akṣharaṁ sad-asat tat paraṁ yat

This is the meaning of the above verse: And why should they not bow down to You, O exalted One, who are greater than all and who are the first Creator even of Brahma! O infinite One, supreme God, Abode of the Universe, You are the Immutable, being and non-being, and that which is Transcendental.

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 38 script:
tvam ādi-devaḥ puruṣhaḥ purāṇas
tvam asya viśhvasya paraṁ nidhānam
vettāsi vedyaṁ cha paraṁ cha dhāma
tvayā tataṁ viśhvam ananta-rūpa

This is the meaning of the above verse: You are the primal Deity, the ancient Person; You are the supreme Refuge of this world. You are the knower and the object of knowledge, and the supreme Abode. O You of infinite forms, You pervade the Universe!

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 39 script:
vāyur yamo ’gnir varuṇaḥ śhaśhāṅkaḥ
prajāpatis tvaṁ prapitāmahaśh cha
namo namas te ’stu sahasra-kṛitvaḥ
punaśh cha bhūyo ’pi namo namas te

This is the meaning of the above verse: You are air, death, fire, the god of the waters, the moon, the Lord of creatures, and the great-grandfather. Salutations to you a thousand times! Salutations to you again and again! Salutations!

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 40 script:
namaḥ purastād atha pṛiṣhṭhatas te
namo ’stu te sarvata eva sarva
ananta-vīryāmita-vikramas tvaṁ
sarvaṁ samāpnoṣhi tato ’si sarvaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Salutations to You in the East and behind. Salutations to You on all sides indeed, O All! You possess infinite strength and infinite heroism. You pervade everything; thus You are all!

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 41 script:
sakheti matvā prasabhaṁ yad uktaṁ
he kṛiṣhṇa he yādava he sakheti
ajānatā mahimānaṁ tavedaṁ
mayā pramādāt praṇayena vāpi

This is the meaning of the above verse: Without knowing Your greatness, whatever I said rashly, inadvertently, or even out of familiarity, thinking You to be a friend, addressing You as 'O Krsna,' 'O Yadava,' 'O friend,' etc.

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 42 script:
yach chāvahāsārtham asat-kṛito ’si
vihāra-śhayyāsana-bhojaneṣhu
eko ’tha vāpy achyuta tat-samakṣhaṁ
tat kṣhāmaye tvām aham aprameyam

This is the meaning of the above verse: And that You have been discourteously treated out of fun—while walking, while on a bed, while on a seat, while eating, in privacy, or, O Acyuta, even in public—for that, I beg pardon of You, the incomprehensible One.

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 43 script:
pitāsi lokasya charācharasya
tvam asya pūjyaśh cha gurur garīyān
na tvat-samo ’sty abhyadhikaḥ kuto ’nyo
loka-traye ’py apratima-prabhāva

This is the meaning of the above verse: You are the Father of all beings, both moving and non-moving; to You, the Teacher, are they worthy of worship, and You are greater than a teacher. There is none equal to You; how can there be anyone greater even in all the three worlds, O You of unrivaled power?

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 44 script:
tasmāt praṇamya praṇidhāya kāyaṁ
prasādaye tvām aham īśham īḍyam
piteva putrasya sakheva sakhyuḥ
priyaḥ priyāyārhasi deva soḍhum

This is the meaning of the above verse: Therefore, by bowing down and prostrating my body, I seek to propitiate You who are God and are adorable. O Lord, You should forgive my faults as a father would forgive the faults of a son, as a friend would forgive the faults of a friend, and as a lover would forgive the faults of a beloved.

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 45 script:
adṛiṣhṭa-pūrvaṁ hṛiṣhito ’smi dṛiṣhṭvā
bhayena cha pravyathitaṁ mano me
tad eva me darśhaya deva rūpaṁ
prasīda deveśha jagan-nivāsa

This is the meaning of the above verse: I am delighted by seeing something I have not seen before, and my mind is stricken with fear. O Lord, show me that very form; O Supreme God, O Abode of the Universe, be gracious!

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 46 script:
kirīṭinaṁ gadinaṁ chakra-hastam
ichchhāmi tvāṁ draṣhṭum ahaṁ tathaiva
tenaiva rūpeṇa chatur-bhujena
sahasra-bāho bhava viśhva-mūrte

This is the meaning of the above verse: I desire to see You as before, crowned, bearing a mace, with the discus in hand, in Your former form only, having four arms, O thousand-armed, Cosmic Being.

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 47 script:
śhrī-bhagavān uvācha
mayā prasannena tavārjunedaṁ
rūpaṁ paraṁ darśhitam ātma-yogāt
tejo-mayaṁ viśhvam anantam ādyaṁ
yan me tvad anyena na dṛiṣhṭa-pūrvam

This is the meaning of the above verse: The Blessed Lord said, Out of grace, O Arjuna, this supreme, radiant, cosmic, infinite, primeval form—which no one other than you has seen before—has been shown to you by Me through the power of My own Yoga.

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 48 script:
na veda-yajñādhyayanair na dānair
na cha kriyābhir na tapobhir ugraiḥ
evaṁ-rūpaḥ śhakya ahaṁ nṛi-loke
draṣhṭuṁ tvad anyena kuru-pravīra

This is the meaning of the above verse: Not by the study of the Vedas and sacrifices, not by gifts, not even by rituals, nor by severe austerities, can I, in this form, be perceived in the human world by anyone other than you, O most valiant among the Kurus, who has not received My grace.

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 49 script:
mā te vyathā mā cha vimūḍha-bhāvo
dṛiṣhṭvā rūpaṁ ghoram īdṛiṅ mamedam
vyapeta-bhīḥ prīta-manāḥ punas tvaṁ
tad eva me rūpam idaṁ prapaśhya

This is the meaning of the above verse: May you have no fear, and may there be no bewilderment upon seeing this form of Mine so terrible. Becoming free from fear and gladdened in mind once again, behold this earlier form of Mine.

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 50 script:
sañjaya uvācha
ity arjunaṁ vāsudevas tathoktvā
svakaṁ rūpaṁ darśhayām āsa bhūyaḥ
āśhvāsayām āsa cha bhītam enaṁ
bhūtvā punaḥ saumya-vapur mahātmā

This is the meaning of the above verse: Sanjaya said, Thus, having spoken to Arjuna in that manner, Vasudeva showed His own form again. And He, the exalted One, reassured this terrified one by again becoming serene in his form.

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 51 script:
arjuna uvācha
dṛiṣhṭvedaṁ mānuṣhaṁ rūpaṁ tava saumyaṁ janārdana
idānīm asmi saṁvṛittaḥ sa-chetāḥ prakṛitiṁ gataḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Arjuna said, "O Janardana, having seen this serene human form of Yours, I have now become calm in mind and restored to my own nature."

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 52 script:
śhrī-bhagavān uvācha
su-durdarśham idaṁ rūpaṁ dṛiṣhṭavān asi yan mama
devā apy asya rūpasya nityaṁ darśhana-kāṅkṣhiṇaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: The Blessed Lord said, "This form of Mine, which you have seen, is very difficult to behold; even the gods are ever desirous of a vision of this form."

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 53 script:
nāhaṁ vedair na tapasā na dānena na chejyayā
śhakya evaṁ-vidho draṣhṭuṁ dṛiṣhṭavān asi māṁ yathā

This is the meaning of the above verse: Not through the Vedas, nor by austerity, nor by gifts, nor even by sacrifice can I be seen in this form as you have seen Me.

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 54 script:
bhaktyā tv ananyayā śhakya aham evaṁ-vidho ’rjuna
jñātuṁ draṣhṭuṁ cha tattvena praveṣhṭuṁ cha parantapa

This is the meaning of the above verse: But, O Arjuna, by single-minded devotion am I, in this form, able to be known and seen in reality, and also entered into, O destroyer of foes.

This is Chapter 11 Shloka 55 script:
mat-karma-kṛin mat-paramo mad-bhaktaḥ saṅga-varjitaḥ
nirvairaḥ sarva-bhūteṣhu yaḥ sa mām eti pāṇḍava

This is the meaning of the above verse: O son of Pandu, he who works for Me, accepts Me as the supreme goal, is devoted to Me, is devoid of attachment and free from enmity towards all beings—he attains Me.

