This is the script of the Vibhooti Yoga. It is the chapter number 10. It has 42 shlokas. The name means Yoga through Appreciating the Infinite Opulences of God.

The tenth chapter of the Bhagavad Gita is "Vibhooti Yoga". In this chapter, Krishna reveals Himself as the cause of all causes. He describes His various manifestations and opulences in order to increase Arjuna's Bhakti. Arjuna is fully convinced of Lord's paramount position and proclaims him to be the Supreme Personality. He prays to Krishna to describe more of His divine glories which are like nectar to hear.

This is Chapter 10 Shloka 1 script:
śhrī bhagavān uvācha
bhūya eva mahā-bāho śhṛiṇu me paramaṁ vachaḥ
yatte ’haṁ prīyamāṇāya vakṣhyāmi hita-kāmyayā

This is the meaning of the above verse: "Lord Shri Krishna said: Now, O Prince! Listen to My supreme advice, which I give you for the sake of your welfare, for you are My beloved.

This is Chapter 10 Shloka 2 script:
na me viduḥ sura-gaṇāḥ prabhavaṁ na maharṣhayaḥ
aham ādir hi devānāṁ maharṣhīṇāṁ cha sarvaśhaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Neither the gods nor the great sages know My majesty, for I am the source of them all in all respects.

This is Chapter 10 Shloka 3 script:
yo māmajam anādiṁ cha vetti loka-maheśhvaram
asammūḍhaḥ sa martyeṣhu sarva-pāpaiḥ pramuchyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: He who knows Me—the birthless, beginningless, and great Lord of the worlds—he, the undeluded one among mortals, becomes freed from all sins.

This is Chapter 10 Shloka 4 script:
buddhir jñānam asammohaḥ kṣhamā satyaṁ damaḥ śhamaḥ
sukhaṁ duḥkhaṁ bhavo ’bhāvo bhayaṁ chābhayameva cha

This is the meaning of the above verse: Intelligence, wisdom, non-delusion, forgiveness, truth, self-control, calmness, pleasure, pain, birth, death, fear, and fearlessness;

This is Chapter 10 Shloka 5 script:
ahiṁsā   samatā  tuṣṭis tapo dānaṁ   yaśo    'yaśaḥ  bhavanti    bhāvā   bhūtānāṁ    matta   eva pṛthag-vidhāḥ
This is the meaning of the above verse: Harmlessness, equanimity, contentment, austerity, beneficence, fame, and failure—all these characteristics of beings spring from Me alone.

This is Chapter 10 Shloka 6 script:
maharṣhayaḥ sapta pūrve chatvāro manavas tathā
mad-bhāvā mānasā jātā yeṣhāṁ loka imāḥ prajāḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: The seven great sages, the ancient four, and the Manus, possessing powers like Mine (due to their minds being fixed on Me), were born from My mind; from them, these creatures have been born in this world.

This is Chapter 10 Shloka 7 script:
etāṁ vibhūtiṁ yogaṁ cha mama yo vetti tattvataḥ
so ’vikampena yogena yujyate nātra sanśhayaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: He who truly knows this supreme manifestation and splendor of My auspicious attributes, becomes united with the unshakeable Yoga of Bhakti—there is no doubt of this.

This is Chapter 10 Shloka 8 script:
ahaṁ sarvasya prabhavo mattaḥ sarvaṁ pravartate
iti matvā bhajante māṁ budhā bhāva-samanvitāḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।10.8।। मैं संसारमात्रका प्रभव (मूलकारण) हूँ, और मुझसे ही सारा संसार प्रवृत्त हो रहा है अर्थात् चेष्टा कर रहा है -- ऐसा मेरेको मानकर मेरेमें ही श्रद्धा-प्रेम रखते हुए बुद्धिमान् भक्त मेरा ही भजन करते हैं -- सब प्रकारसे मेरे ही शरण होते हैं।

This is Chapter 10 Shloka 9 script:
mach-chittā mad-gata-prāṇā bodhayantaḥ parasparam
kathayantaśh cha māṁ nityaṁ tuṣhyanti cha ramanti cha

This is the meaning of the above verse: With their minds fixed on Me, dedicating their lives to Me, enlightening one another, and always speaking of Me, they derive satisfaction and rejoice.

This is Chapter 10 Shloka 10 script:
teṣhāṁ satata-yuktānāṁ bhajatāṁ prīti-pūrvakam
dadāmi buddhi-yogaṁ taṁ yena mām upayānti te

This is the meaning of the above verse: To those who are always devout and who worship Me with love, I give the power of discrimination that leads them to Me.

This is Chapter 10 Shloka 11 script:
teṣhām evānukampārtham aham ajñāna-jaṁ tamaḥ
nāśhayāmyātma-bhāva-stho jñāna-dīpena bhāsvatā

This is the meaning of the above verse: By My grace, I live in their hearts, and I dispel the darkness of ignorance with the shining light of wisdom.

This is Chapter 10 Shloka 12 script:
arjuna uvācha
paraṁ brahma paraṁ dhāma pavitraṁ paramaṁ bhavān
puruṣhaṁ śhāśhvataṁ divyam ādi-devam ajaṁ vibhum

This is the meaning of the above verse: Arjuna said, "You are the supreme Brahman, the supreme Light, the supreme Sanctifier. All the sages, as well as the divine sage Narada, Asita, Devala, and Vyasa [Although Narada and the other sages are already mentioned by the words 'all the sages', they are still named separately due to their eminence. Asita is the father of Devala.] call You the eternal divine Person, the Primal God, the Birthless, the Omnipresent; and You Yourself indeed tell me this."

This is Chapter 10 Shloka 13 script:
āhus tvām ṛiṣhayaḥ sarve devarṣhir nāradas tathā
asito devalo vyāsaḥ svayaṁ chaiva bravīṣhi me

This is the meaning of the above verse: Arjuna said, "You are the supreme Brahman, the supreme Light, the supreme Sanctifier. All the sages, as well as the divine sage Narada, Asita, Devala, and Vyasa [Although Narada and the other sages are already mentioned by the words 'all the sages', they are still named separately due to their eminence. Asita is the father of Devala.] call You the eternal divine Person, the Primal God, the Birthless, the Omnipresent; and You Yourself indeed tell me this."

This is Chapter 10 Shloka 14 script:
sarvam etad ṛitaṁ manye yan māṁ vadasi keśhava
na hi te bhagavan vyaktiṁ vidur devā na dānavāḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: I believe in what You have said, my Lord! For neither the godly nor the godless comprehend Your manifestation.

This is Chapter 10 Shloka 15 script:
swayam evātmanātmānaṁ vettha tvaṁ puruṣhottama
bhūta-bhāvana bhūteśha deva-deva jagat-pate

This is the meaning of the above verse: O Supreme Person, Creator of beings, Lord of beings, God of gods, Lord of the worlds, You alone know Yourself by Yourself.

This is Chapter 10 Shloka 16 script:
vaktum arhasyaśheṣheṇa divyā hyātma-vibhūtayaḥ
yābhir vibhūtibhir lokān imāṁs tvaṁ vyāpya tiṣhṭhasi

This is the meaning of the above verse: Be pleased to speak in full of Your own divine manifestations, through which You exist pervading these worlds.

This is Chapter 10 Shloka 17 script:
kathaṁ vidyām ahaṁ yogins tvāṁ sadā parichintayan
keṣhu keṣhu cha bhāveṣhu chintyo ’si bhagavan mayā

This is the meaning of the above verse: O Mighty Yogin! How should I know you, meditating on you? In what various forms, O Bhagavat, should I contemplate you?

This is Chapter 10 Shloka 18 script:
vistareṇātmano yogaṁ vibhūtiṁ cha janārdana
bhūyaḥ kathaya tṛiptir hi śhṛiṇvato nāsti me ’mṛitam

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।10.18।। हे जनार्दन ! आप अपने योग (सामर्थ्य) को और विभूतियोंको विस्तारसे फिर कहिये; क्योंकि आपके अमृतमय वचन सुनते-सुनते मेरी तृप्ति नहीं हो रही है।

This is Chapter 10 Shloka 19 script:
śhrī bhagavān uvācha
hanta te kathayiṣhyāmi divyā hyātma-vibhūtayaḥ
prādhānyataḥ kuru-śhreṣhṭha nāstyanto vistarasya me

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।10.19।। श्रीभगवान् बोले -- हाँ, ठीक है। मैं अपनी दिव्य विभूतियोंको तेरे लिये प्रधानतासे (संक्षेपसे) कहूँगा; क्योंकि हे कुरुश्रेष्ठ ! मेरी विभूतियोंके विस्तारका अन्त नहीं है।

This is Chapter 10 Shloka 20 script:
aham ātmā guḍākeśha sarva-bhūtāśhaya-sthitaḥ
aham ādiśh cha madhyaṁ cha bhūtānām anta eva cha

This is the meaning of the above verse: O conqueror of sleep! I am the Soul residing in the hearts of all beings; I am the beginning, the middle, and the very end of all beings.

This is Chapter 10 Shloka 21 script:
ādityānām ahaṁ viṣhṇur jyotiṣhāṁ ravir anśhumān
marīchir marutām asmi nakṣhatrāṇām ahaṁ śhaśhī

This is the meaning of the above verse: Among the Adityas [viz Dhata, Mitra, Aryama, Rudra, Varuna, Surya, Bhaga, Vivasvan, Pusa, Savita, Tvasta, and Visnu.-Tr.], I am Visnu; among the luminaries, the radiant sun; among the (forty-nine) Maruts [The seven groups of Maruts are Avaha, Pravaha, Vivaha, Paravaha, Udvaha, Samvaha, and Parivaha.-Tr.], I am Marici; among the stars, I am the moon.

This is Chapter 10 Shloka 22 script:
vedānāṁ sāma-vedo ’smi devānām asmi vāsavaḥ
indriyāṇāṁ manaśh chāsmi bhūtānām asmi chetanā

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।10.22।। मैं वेदोंमें सामवेद हूँ, देवताओंमें इन्द्र हूँ, इन्द्रियोंमें मन हूँ और प्राणियोंकी चेतना हूँ।

This is Chapter 10 Shloka 23 script:
rudrāṇāṁ śhaṅkaraśh chāsmi vitteśho yakṣha-rakṣhasām
vasūnāṁ pāvakaśh chāsmi meruḥ śhikhariṇām aham

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।10.23।। रुद्रोंमें शंकर और यक्ष-राक्षसोंमें कुबेर मैं हूँ।वसुओंमें पावक (अग्नि) और शिखरवाले पर्वतोंमें सुमेरु मैं हूँ।

This is Chapter 10 Shloka 24 script:
purodhasāṁ cha mukhyaṁ māṁ viddhi pārtha bṛihaspatim
senānīnām ahaṁ skandaḥ sarasām asmi sāgaraḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।10.24।। हे पार्थ ! पुरोहितोंमें मुख्य बृहस्पतिको मेरा स्वरूप समझो। सेनापतियोंमें स्कन्द और जलाशयोंमें समुद्र मैं हूँ।

This is Chapter 10 Shloka 25 script:
maharṣhīṇāṁ bhṛigur ahaṁ girām asmyekam akṣharam
yajñānāṁ japa-yajño ’smi sthāvarāṇāṁ himālayaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Among the great sages, I am Bhrgu; of words, I am the single syllable (Om). Among rituals, I am the ritual of Japa of the immovables, the Himalayas.

This is Chapter 10 Shloka 26 script:
aśhvatthaḥ sarva-vṛikṣhāṇāṁ devarṣhīṇāṁ cha nāradaḥ
gandharvāṇāṁ chitrarathaḥ siddhānāṁ kapilo muniḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Of trees, I am the sacred fig tree; of divine seers, Narada; of heavenly singers, I am Chitraratha, their leader; and of sages, I am Kapila.

This is Chapter 10 Shloka 27 script:
uchchaiḥśhravasam aśhvānāṁ viddhi mām amṛitodbhavam
airāvataṁ gajendrāṇāṁ narāṇāṁ cha narādhipam

This is the meaning of the above verse: Know that among horses I am Pegasus, heaven-born; among the lordly elephants I am the white one, and I am the ruler among men.

This is Chapter 10 Shloka 28 script:
āyudhānām ahaṁ vajraṁ dhenūnām asmi kāmadhuk
prajanaśh chāsmi kandarpaḥ sarpāṇām asmi vāsukiḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Among weapons I am the thunderbolt; among cows I am Kamadhenu. I am Kandarpa, the Progenitor, and among serpents I am Vasuki.

This is Chapter 10 Shloka 29 script:
anantaśh chāsmi nāgānāṁ varuṇo yādasām aham
pitṝīṇām aryamā chāsmi yamaḥ sanyamatām aham

This is the meaning of the above verse: Among snakes, I am Ananta; among gods of the waters, Varuna; among the manes, Aryama; and among the maintainers of law and order, I am Yama (King of death).

This is Chapter 10 Shloka 30 script:
prahlādaśh chāsmi daityānāṁ kālaḥ kalayatām aham
mṛigāṇāṁ cha mṛigendro ’haṁ vainateyaśh cha pakṣhiṇām

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।10.30।। दैत्योंमें प्रह्लाद और गणना करनेवालोंमें काल मैं हूँ । पशुओंमें सिंह और पक्षियोंमें गरुड मैं हूँ।

This is Chapter 10 Shloka 31 script:
pavanaḥ pavatām asmi rāmaḥ śhastra-bhṛitām aham
jhaṣhāṇāṁ makaraśh chāsmi srotasām asmi jāhnavī

This is the meaning of the above verse: Of the purifiers, I am the air; among the wielders of weapons, I am Rama. Among fishes, I am the shark; among rivers, I am Ganga.

This is Chapter 10 Shloka 32 script:
sargāṇām ādir antaśh cha madhyaṁ chaivāham arjuna
adhyātma-vidyā vidyānāṁ vādaḥ pravadatām aham

This is the meaning of the above verse: I am the beginning, the middle, and the end of creation; among sciences, I am the science of spirituality; I am the discussion among disputants.

This is Chapter 10 Shloka 33 script:
अहमेवाक्षय: कालो धाताहं विश्वतोमुख: || 33||

akṣharāṇām a-kāro ’smi dvandvaḥ sāmāsikasya cha
aham evākṣhayaḥ kālo dhātāhaṁ viśhvato-mukhaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Of letters, I am A; I am the copulative in compound words; I am inexhaustible Time; and I am the all-pervading Preserver.

This is Chapter 10 Shloka 34 script:
mṛityuḥ sarva-haraśh chāham udbhavaśh cha bhaviṣhyatām
kīrtiḥ śhrīr vāk cha nārīṇāṁ smṛitir medhā dhṛitiḥ kṣhamā

This is the meaning of the above verse: I am all-devouring Death; I am the Origin of all that will happen; I am Fame, Fortune, Speech, Memory, Intellect, Constancy, and Forgiveness.

This is Chapter 10 Shloka 35 script:
bṛihat-sāma tathā sāmnāṁ gāyatrī chhandasām aham
māsānāṁ mārga-śhīrṣho ’ham ṛitūnāṁ kusumākaraḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: I am also the Brhat-sama of the Sama-mantras; of the meters, Gayatri. Of the months, I am Marga-sirsa, and of the seasons, spring.

This is Chapter 10 Shloka 36 script:
dyūtaṁ chhalayatām asmi tejas tejasvinām aham
jayo ’smi vyavasāyo ’smi sattvaṁ sattvavatām aham

This is the meaning of the above verse: Of the fraudulent, I am the gambling; I am the irresistible end of the mighty. I am excellence, I am effort, I am the sattva quality of those possessed of sattva.

This is Chapter 10 Shloka 37 script:
vṛiṣhṇīnāṁ vāsudevo ’smi pāṇḍavānāṁ dhanañjayaḥ
munīnām apyahaṁ vyāsaḥ kavīnām uśhanā kaviḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: I am Shri Krishna among the Vishnu-clan, Arjuna among the Pandavas, Vyasa among the saints, and Shukracharya among the sages.

This is Chapter 10 Shloka 38 script:
daṇḍo damayatām asmi nītir asmi jigīṣhatām
maunaṁ chaivāsmi guhyānāṁ jñānaṁ jñānavatām aham

This is the meaning of the above verse: Of the punishers, I am the rod; I am the righteous policy of those who desire to conquer. And of things secret, I am verily silence; I am the knowledge of the wise.

This is Chapter 10 Shloka 39 script:
yach chāpi sarva-bhūtānāṁ bījaṁ tad aham arjuna
na tad asti vinā yat syān mayā bhūtaṁ charācharam

This is the meaning of the above verse: And whatever is the seed of all beings, that too am I, O Arjuna; there is no being, be it moving or unmoving, that can exist without Me.

This is Chapter 10 Shloka 40 script:
nānto ’sti mama divyānāṁ vibhūtīnāṁ parantapa
eṣha tūddeśhataḥ prokto vibhūter vistaro mayā

This is the meaning of the above verse: O Arjuna! The aspects of My divine life are endless; I have mentioned only a few as an example.

This is Chapter 10 Shloka 41 script:
yad yad vibhūtimat sattvaṁ śhrīmad ūrjitam eva vā
tat tad evāvagachchha tvaṁ mama tejo ’nśha-sambhavam

This is the meaning of the above verse: Whatever is glorious, excellent, beautiful, and mighty, be assured that it comes from a fragment of My splendor.

This is Chapter 10 Shloka 42 script:
atha vā bahunaitena kiṁ jñātena tavārjuna
viṣhṭabhyāham idaṁ kṛitsnam ekānśhena sthito jagat

This is the meaning of the above verse: But what is the use of all these details to you, O Arjuna? I sustain this universe with only a small part of Myself.

