This is the script of the Karma Yoga. It is the chapter number 3. It has 43 shlokas. The name means Path of Selfless Service.

The third chapter of the Bhagavad Gita is "Karma Yoga" or the "Path of Selfless Service". Here Lord Krishna emphasizes the importance of karma in life. He reveals that it is important for every human being to engage in some sort of activity in this material world. Further, he describes the kinds of actions that lead to bondage and the kinds that lead to liberation. Those persons who continue to perform their respective duties externally for the pleasure of the Supreme, without attachment to its rewards get liberation at the end.

This is Chapter 3 Shloka 1 script:
arjuna uvācha
jyāyasī chet karmaṇas te matā buddhir janārdana
tat kiṁ karmaṇi ghore māṁ niyojayasi keśhava

This is the meaning of the above verse: Arjuna said, "O Krsna, if you deem knowledge to be superior to action, why then do you urge me to engage in this terrible deed?"

This is Chapter 3 Shloka 2 script:
vyāmiśhreṇeva vākyena buddhiṁ mohayasīva me
tad ekaṁ vada niśhchitya yena śhreyo ’ham āpnuyām

This is the meaning of the above verse: With this seemingly perplexing speech, you seem to be confusing my understanding; therefore, tell me one certain way by which I may attain bliss.

This is Chapter 3 Shloka 3 script:
śhrī bhagavān uvācha
loke’smin dvi-vidhā niṣhṭhā purā proktā mayānagha
jñāna-yogena sāṅkhyānāṁ karma-yogena yoginām

This is the meaning of the above verse: The Blessed Lord said, "In this world, there is a twofold path, as I said before, O sinless one: the path of knowledge of the Sankhyas and the path of action of the Yogins."

This is Chapter 3 Shloka 4 script:
na karmaṇām anārambhān naiṣhkarmyaṁ puruṣho ’śhnute
na cha sannyasanād eva siddhiṁ samadhigachchhati

This is the meaning of the above verse: No one experiences freedom from action (Naiskarmya) by abstaining from work; and no one ever attains success through mere renunciation of work.

This is Chapter 3 Shloka 5 script:
na hi kaśhchit kṣhaṇam api jātu tiṣhṭhatyakarma-kṛit
kāryate hyavaśhaḥ karma sarvaḥ prakṛiti-jair guṇaiḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Verily, no one can remain for even a moment without performing action; for everyone is made to act helplessly, indeed, by the qualities born of Nature.

This is Chapter 3 Shloka 6 script:
karmendriyāṇi sanyamya ya āste manasā smaran
indriyārthān vimūḍhātmā mithyāchāraḥ sa uchyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: He who, restraining the organs of action, sits thinking of the sense-objects in his mind, he of deluded understanding is called a hypocrite.

This is Chapter 3 Shloka 7 script:
yas tvindriyāṇi manasā niyamyārabhate ’rjuna
karmendriyaiḥ karma-yogam asaktaḥ sa viśhiṣhyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: But whoever, controlling the senses by the mind, O Arjuna, engages himself in Karma Yoga with the organs of action, without attachment, he excels.

This is Chapter 3 Shloka 8 script:
niyataṁ kuru karma tvaṁ karma jyāyo hyakarmaṇaḥ
śharīra-yātrāpi cha te na prasiddhyed akarmaṇaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Perform your bounden duty, for action is superior to inaction, and even the maintenance of the body would not be possible for you through inaction.

This is Chapter 3 Shloka 9 script:
yajñārthāt karmaṇo ’nyatra loko ’yaṁ karma-bandhanaḥ
tad-arthaṁ karma kaunteya mukta-saṅgaḥ samāchara

This is the meaning of the above verse: The world is bound by actions other than those performed for the sake of sacrifice; do thou, therefore, O son of Kunti (Arjuna), perform actions for that sake alone, free from attachment.

This is Chapter 3 Shloka 10 script:
saha-yajñāḥ prajāḥ sṛiṣhṭvā purovācha prajāpatiḥ
anena prasaviṣhyadhvam eṣha vo ’stviṣhṭa-kāma-dhuk

This is the meaning of the above verse: The Creator, having in the beginning created mankind together with sacrifice, said, "By this shall you propagate; let this be the milch cow of your desires—the cow that yields all the desired objects."

This is Chapter 3 Shloka 11 script:
devān bhāvayatānena te devā bhāvayantu vaḥ
parasparaṁ bhāvayantaḥ śhreyaḥ param avāpsyatha

This is the meaning of the above verse: 'You nourish the gods with this. Let those gods nourish you in return. By mutually nourishing each other, you shall attain the supreme Good.'

This is Chapter 3 Shloka 12 script:
iṣhṭān bhogān hi vo devā dāsyante yajña-bhāvitāḥ
tair dattān apradāyaibhyo yo bhuṅkte stena eva saḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: For, fed by sacrifice, nature will give you all the enjoyment you desire. But he who enjoys what she gives without returning is, indeed, a thief.

This is Chapter 3 Shloka 13 script:
yajña-śhiṣhṭāśhinaḥ santo muchyante sarva-kilbiṣhaiḥ
bhuñjate te tvaghaṁ pāpā ye pachantyātma-kāraṇāt

This is the meaning of the above verse: The righteous who eat the remnants of the sacrifice are freed from all sins; but those sinful ones who cook food solely for their own sake indeed consume sin.

This is Chapter 3 Shloka 14 script:
annād bhavanti bhūtāni parjanyād anna-sambhavaḥ
yajñād bhavati parjanyo yajñaḥ karma-samudbhavaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: From food come forth beings; from rain, food is produced; from sacrifice arises rain, and sacrifice is born of action.

This is Chapter 3 Shloka 15 script:
karma brahmodbhavaṁ viddhi brahmākṣhara-samudbhavam
tasmāt sarva-gataṁ brahma nityaṁ yajñe pratiṣhṭhitam

This is the meaning of the above verse: Know that action has the Vedas as its origin; the Vedas have the Immutable as their source. Hence, the all-pervading Vedas are forever based on sacrifice.

This is Chapter 3 Shloka 16 script:
evaṁ pravartitaṁ chakraṁ nānuvartayatīha yaḥ
aghāyur indriyārāmo moghaṁ pārtha sa jīvati

This is the meaning of the above verse: He who does not follow the wheel thus set in motion, who is of sinful life, rejoicing in the senses, lives in vain, O Arjuna.

This is Chapter 3 Shloka 17 script:
yas tvātma-ratir eva syād ātma-tṛiptaśh cha mānavaḥ
ātmanyeva cha santuṣhṭas tasya kāryaṁ na vidyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: But that man who rejoices only in the Self, is satisfied with the Self, and is content only in the Self—for him there is no duty to perform.

This is Chapter 3 Shloka 18 script:
naiva tasya kṛitenārtho nākṛiteneha kaśhchana
na chāsya sarva-bhūteṣhu kaśhchid artha-vyapāśhrayaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: He has no purpose to gain from work done or left undone, nor does he have to rely on any end.

This is Chapter 3 Shloka 19 script:
tasmād asaktaḥ satataṁ kāryaṁ karma samāchara
asakto hyācharan karma param āpnoti pūruṣhaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Therefore, without attachment, always perform the actions that should be done; for by performing actions without attachment, one reaches the Supreme.

This is Chapter 3 Shloka 20 script:
karmaṇaiva hi sansiddhim āsthitā janakādayaḥ
loka-saṅgraham evāpi sampaśhyan kartum arhasi

This is the meaning of the above verse: Janaka and others attained perfection indeed through action alone; even with the intention of protecting the masses, you should perform action.

This is Chapter 3 Shloka 21 script:
yad yad ācharati śhreṣhṭhas tat tad evetaro janaḥ
sa yat pramāṇaṁ kurute lokas tad anuvartate

This is the meaning of the above verse: Whatever a great man does, others also do; whatever he establishes as the standard, the world follows.

This is Chapter 3 Shloka 22 script:
na me pārthāsti kartavyaṁ triṣhu lokeṣhu kiñchana
nānavāptam avāptavyaṁ varta eva cha karmaṇi

This is the meaning of the above verse: There is nothing in the three worlds, O Arjuna, that needs to be done by Me, nor is there anything unattained that needs to be attained; yet I engage Myself in action.

This is Chapter 3 Shloka 23 script:
yadi hyahaṁ na varteyaṁ jātu karmaṇyatandritaḥ
mama vartmānuvartante manuṣhyāḥ pārtha sarvaśhaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: For, should I not ever engage myself in action, unwearied, people would in every way follow my path, O Arjuna.

This is Chapter 3 Shloka 24 script:
utsīdeyur ime lokā na kuryāṁ karma ched aham
sankarasya cha kartā syām upahanyām imāḥ prajāḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: These worlds would perish if I did not perform action; I would be the author of confusion of castes and destruction of these beings.

This is Chapter 3 Shloka 25 script:
saktāḥ karmaṇyavidvānso yathā kurvanti bhārata
kuryād vidvāns tathāsaktaśh chikīrṣhur loka-saṅgraham

This is the meaning of the above verse: As the ignorant act out of attachment to action, O Bharata, so should the wise act without attachment, wishing for the welfare of the world.

This is Chapter 3 Shloka 26 script:
na buddhi-bhedaṁ janayed ajñānāṁ karma-saṅginām
joṣhayet sarva-karmāṇi vidvān yuktaḥ samācharan

This is the meaning of the above verse: ।।3.26।। ज्ञानी पुरुष, कर्मों में आसक्त अज्ञानियों की बुद्धि में भ्रम उत्पन्न न करे, स्वयं (भक्ति से) युक्त होकर कर्मों का सम्यक् आचरण कर, उनसे भी वैसा ही कराये।।
 

This is Chapter 3 Shloka 27 script:
prakṛiteḥ kriyamāṇāni guṇaiḥ karmāṇi sarvaśhaḥ
ahankāra-vimūḍhātmā kartāham iti manyate

This is the meaning of the above verse: All actions are wrought in all cases by the qualities of Nature alone. He whose mind is deluded by egoism thinks, "I am the doer."

This is Chapter 3 Shloka 28 script:
tattva-vit tu mahā-bāho guṇa-karma-vibhāgayoḥ
guṇā guṇeṣhu vartanta iti matvā na sajjate

This is the meaning of the above verse: But, O mighty-armed one, the one who knows the true nature of the strands and their respective divisions of work, realizes: 'The strands are in their respective purposes.' And thus, he is not attached.

This is Chapter 3 Shloka 29 script:
prakṛiter guṇa-sammūḍhāḥ sajjante guṇa-karmasu
tān akṛitsna-vido mandān kṛitsna-vin na vichālayet

This is the meaning of the above verse: Those who are completely deluded by the gunas of Nature become attached to the activities of the gunas. The one who knows the All should not disturb those of dull intellect, who do not know the All.

This is Chapter 3 Shloka 30 script:
mayi sarvāṇi karmāṇi sannyasyādhyātma-chetasā
nirāśhīr nirmamo bhūtvā yudhyasva vigata-jvaraḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Renouncing all actions in Me, with the mind centered on the Self, free from hope and egoism, and from mental fever, fight thou.

This is Chapter 3 Shloka 31 script:
ye me matam idaṁ nityam anutiṣhṭhanti mānavāḥ
śhraddhāvanto ’nasūyanto muchyante te ’pi karmabhiḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Those who constantly practice this teaching of Mine with faith and without caviling, they too are freed from actions.

This is Chapter 3 Shloka 32 script:
ye tvetad abhyasūyanto nānutiṣhṭhanti me matam
sarva-jñāna-vimūḍhāns tān viddhi naṣhṭān achetasaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: But those who criticize My teaching and do not practice it, deprived of all knowledge and lacking discernment, know them to be doomed to destruction.

This is Chapter 3 Shloka 33 script:
sadṛiśhaṁ cheṣhṭate svasyāḥ prakṛiter jñānavān api
prakṛitiṁ yānti bhūtāni nigrahaḥ kiṁ kariṣhyati

This is the meaning of the above verse: Even a wise man acts in accordance with his own nature; beings will follow their nature; what can restraint do?

This is Chapter 3 Shloka 34 script:
indriyasyendriyasyārthe rāga-dveṣhau vyavasthitau
tayor na vaśham āgachchhet tau hyasya paripanthinau

This is the meaning of the above verse: Attachment and aversion for the objects of the senses abide in the senses; let no one come under their sway; for, they are his enemies.

This is Chapter 3 Shloka 35 script:
śhreyān swa-dharmo viguṇaḥ para-dharmāt sv-anuṣhṭhitāt
swa-dharme nidhanaṁ śhreyaḥ para-dharmo bhayāvahaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Better is one's own duty, though devoid of merit, than the duty of another well discharged. Better is death in one's own duty; the duty of another is fraught with fear.

This is Chapter 3 Shloka 36 script:
arjuna uvācha
atha kena prayukto ’yaṁ pāpaṁ charati pūruṣhaḥ
anichchhann api vārṣhṇeya balād iva niyojitaḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: Arjuna said, "But what compels man to commit sin, even against his wishes, O Varshneya (Krishna), as if constrained by force?"

This is Chapter 3 Shloka 37 script:
śhrī bhagavān uvācha
kāma eṣha krodha eṣha rajo-guṇa-samudbhavaḥ
mahāśhano mahā-pāpmā viddhyenam iha vairiṇam

This is the meaning of the above verse: The Blessed Lord said, "It is desire and it is anger, both of the quality of Rajas, all-devouring and all-sinful; know this as the foe here in this world."

This is Chapter 3 Shloka 38 script:
dhūmenāvriyate vahnir yathādarśho malena cha
yatholbenāvṛito garbhas tathā tenedam āvṛitam

This is the meaning of the above verse: As fire is enveloped by smoke, as a mirror is covered by dust, and as an embryo is surrounded by the amniotic sac, so is this enveloped by that.

This is Chapter 3 Shloka 39 script:
āvṛitaṁ jñānam etena jñānino nitya-vairiṇā
kāma-rūpeṇa kaunteya duṣhpūreṇānalena cha

This is the meaning of the above verse: O Arjuna, wisdom is enveloped by this constant enemy of the wise, in the form of desire, which is insatiable like fire.

This is Chapter 3 Shloka 40 script:
indriyāṇi mano buddhir asyādhiṣhṭhānam uchyate
etair vimohayatyeṣha jñānam āvṛitya dehinam

This is the meaning of the above verse: The senses, the mind, and the intellect are said to be its seat; through these, it deludes the embodied one, veiling their wisdom.

This is Chapter 3 Shloka 41 script:
tasmāt tvam indriyāṇyādau niyamya bharatarṣhabha
pāpmānaṁ prajahi hyenaṁ jñāna-vijñāna-nāśhanam

This is the meaning of the above verse: Therefore, O best of the Bharatas, control your senses first and then kill this sinful thing, which destroys knowledge and realization.

This is Chapter 3 Shloka 42 script:
indriyāṇi parāṇyāhur indriyebhyaḥ paraṁ manaḥ
manasas tu parā buddhir yo buddheḥ paratas tu saḥ

This is the meaning of the above verse: They say that the senses are superior to the body; the mind is superior to the senses; the intellect is superior to the mind; and He (the Self) is superior even to the intellect.

This is Chapter 3 Shloka 43 script:
evaṁ buddheḥ paraṁ buddhvā sanstabhyātmānam ātmanā
jahi śhatruṁ mahā-bāho kāma-rūpaṁ durāsadam

This is the meaning of the above verse: Thus, knowing Him who is superior to the intellect and restraining the self by the Self, slay thou, O mighty-armed Arjuna, the enemy in the form of desire, hard to conquer.

